one of my first true walk by faith moments happened during my rehab training at the Hine VA Hospital just outside Chicago. At the end of my training, I did a "drop off" test where I was let out of a car in a business district of a suburb with the task of independently finding a grocery store about 5 blocks away. This was my first really solo experience in that I knew that unless I got into serious physical danger, I was not to be assisted. I had to trust my new skills and abilities to make that trip without any sight. It was terrifying, exhilarating and liberating all at the same time. I imagine the blind man born from birth who had to travel to the Pool of Siloam. A long trip now that I can determine (we need to develop a realistic description of what that trip would have been like for him). on faith.
Isaac suffered from more than just vision loss if he could not tell the difference in a man's hands. His sense of touch must have been also affected. I think it said it could tell the difference in the voice, pretty standard, and sense of smell can be fooled by the clothing, but feeling a person's hand, covered by wool or not, would be difficult to fool.

Later Jacob proves this by knowingly plaing his hands on the opposite sons of Joseph.

So when Ahijah heard the sound of her feet entering the door, he said, 
It does not say that he recognized the sound of her feet. He likely did not unless he had been doing this a long time. Besides, he was probably low vision and could still see a little, and the disguise might have been visual enough in nature to hide her true appearance.
I can tell Barb's sound if she wears certain shoes but often in areas without context, it it difficult to determine her footsteps among others.

From John 9:1-41
This one makes me cry because of what Jesus first says: 
3 Jesus answered, “Neither this man nor his parents sinned, but this happened so that the works of God would be displayed in him.
Which is what I pray for on a daily basis, that God uses my blindness for His glory in the actions I do, the things I say and the way I treat others, especially those who need help the most and who have absolutely nothing, according to many, to   give back.
back to the story: the man was blind from birth, and never had it before. From a physiological standpoint, his visual cortex would have never developed. It takes roughly 6 years for an average person to develop their visual cortex with enough stimuli to be able to distinguish human faces. This man travelled through the city from north to south and washed the mud off his eyes and he "received my sight" so this was new to him. Jesus not only headed the physical ailment, he must have given the man a developed visual cortex in which to process those images. We have evidence of people either regaining sight or getting it for the first time and they cannot process those images, See Mike May and his inability to render faces now and still uses Braille and mobility aids.
People did not recognize him likely due to the sheer enormity of what happened. If I walked up to someone now who has never known me with sight and all of a sudden I had it, I would talk different, carry myself different. I would still turn my head toward the sound, that's natural, but my approach and disposition would be different and I would react to visual ques that I do not react to now.
it sure seems like the Pharasees went right into whether it was lawful to do the healing and not whether it actually happened.
It was for the wrong reasons, but when the blind man's parents told the Pharasees to ask the man as he was old enough, usually the blind person's escort or associate gets asked what the blind person wants, this was maybe the first time where we have self advocacy and it was unintentional.
20 His parents answered, “We know he is our son, and we know he was born blind.
21 But how he can now see or who opened his eyes, we do not know. Ask him. He is old enough to speak for himself.”

The arguments that the blind man makes with the Pharasees when they try to convince him to call Jesus a sinner is simply amazing. That he could verbally spar with them and win in such a simple explaination to just ut through their arguments. He never would  have had access to scripture or learning and yet he did a mike drop on the leaders of theological study. I think this was in the Jerusalem temple so these were the experts in all this. That he would even speak back to a Pharasee is kind of amazing. His parents were obviously terrified.
It's hard to even express what that man must have felt when he finally recognized Jesus after Jesus sought him out. I'm so grateful to Jesus for what he did for that single blind man. It was such an amazing gift.


I would like more explanation for this passage: Luke 14:12-24
and what Jesus was trying to teach us through that parable.


Need more explanation for: Jeremiah 31:7-9


In Job, when he says: 15 I served as eyes to the blind and as feet to the lame.
we need to explore that a little. The idea that he is assisting the blind by acting as their eyes is a lot different than "I provided for the blind" or took pity on them. We need to see if there is any studies or thoughts on this particular part of Job's testimony.

Reading more on The man blind from birth.
part of the new content says: a common plea was "Gain merit by me." 
for beggars and the blind. How humbling to call out basically "I have so little to offer you that your act of kindness to me will gain you so much righteousness"
70% of blind people in Nigeria still have to beg to survive.


