     __________________________________________________________________

           Title: The Life and Times of Jesus the Messiah
      Creator(s): Edersheim, Alfred (1825-1889)
     Print Basis: Wm. B. Eerdmans, 1953
          Rights: Public Domain
   CCEL Subjects: All; Classic; History;
      LC Call no: BT301
     LC Subjects:

                  Doctrinal theology

                  Christology

                  Life of Christ
     __________________________________________________________________

   THE

   LIFE AND TIMES

   OF

   JESUS THE MESSIAH



   BY

   ALFRED EDERSHEIM, M.A.Oxon., D.D. Ph.D.




   TO

   THE CHANCELLOR, MASTERS, AND SCHOLARS

   OF THE UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD

   THESE VOLUMES

   ARE RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED


     __________________________________________________________________

                                    PREFACE
                                       TO
                               THE FIRST EDITION.


   In presenting these volumes to the reader, I must offer an explanation,
   - though I would fain hope that such may not be absolutely necessary.
   The title of this book must not be understood as implying any pretence
   on my part to write a Life of Christ' in the strict sense. To take the
   lowest view, the materials for it do not exist. Evidently the
   Evangelists did not intend to give a full record of even the outward
   events in that History; far less could they have thought of compassing
   the sphere or sounding the depths of the Life of Him, Whom they present
   to us as the God-Man and the Eternal Son of the Eternal Father. Rather
   must the Gospels be regarded as four different aspects in which the
   Evangelists viewed the historical Jesus of Nazareth as the fulfilment
   of the Divine promise of old, the Messiah of Israel and the Saviour of
   man, and presented Him to the Jewish and Gentile world for their
   acknowledgment as the Sent of God, Who revealed the Father, and was
   Himself the Way to Him, the Truth, and the Life. And this view of the
   Gospel-narratives underlies the figurative representation of the
   Evangelist in Christian Symbolism. [1]

   In thus guarding my meaning in the choice of the title, I have already
   indicated my own standpoint in this book. But in another respect I wish
   to disclaim having taken any predetermined dogmatic standpoint at the
   outset of my investigations. I wished to write, not for a definite
   purpose, be it even that of the defence of the faith, - but rather to
   let that purpose grow out of the book, as would be pointed out by the
   course of independent study, in which arguments on both sides should be
   impartially weighed and facts ascertained. In this manner I hoped best
   to attain what must be the first object in all research, but especially
   in such as the present: to ascertain, as far as we can, the truth,
   irrespective of consequences. And thus also I hoped to help others, by
   going, as it were, before them, in the path which their enquiries must
   take, and removing the difficulties and entanglements which beset it.
   So might I honestly, confidently, and, in such a matter, earnestly, ask
   them to follow me, pointing to the height to which such enquiries must
   lead up. I know, indeed, that there is something beyond and apart from
   this; even the restful sense on that height, and the happy outlook from
   it. But this is not within the province of one man to give to another,
   nor yet does it come in the way of study, however earnest and careful;
   it depends upon, and implies the existence of a subjective state which
   comes only by the direction given to our enquiries by the true
   hodegos (St John xvi. 13).

   This statement of the general object in view will explain the course
   pursued in these enquiries. First and foremost, this book was to be
   study of the Life of Jesus the Messiah, retaining the general
   designation, as best conveying to others the subject to be treated.

   But, secondly, since Jesus of Nazareth was a Jew, spoke to, and moved
   among Jews, in Palestine, and at a definite period of its history, it
   was absolutely necessary to view that Life and Teaching in all its
   surroundings of place, society, popular life, and intellectual or
   religious development. This would form not only the frame in which to
   set the picture of the Christ, but the very background of the picture
   itself. It is, indeed, most true that Christ spoke not only to the
   Jews, to Palestine, and to that time, but - of which history has given
   the evidence - to all men and to all times. Still He spoke first and
   directly to the Jews, and His words must have been intelligible to
   them, His teaching have reached upwards from their intellectual and
   religious standpoint, even although it infinitely extended the horizon
   so as, in its full application, to make it wide as the bounds of earth
   and time. Nay, to explain the bearing of the religious leaders of
   Israel, from the first, towards Jesus, it seemed also necessary to
   trace the historical development of thought and religious belief, till
   it issued in that system of Traditionalism, which, by an internal
   necessity, was irreconcilably antagonistic to the Christ of the
   Gospels.

   On other grounds also, such a full portraiture of Jewish life, society,
   and thinking seemed requisite. It furnishes alike a vindication and an
   illustration of the Gospel-narratives. A vindication - because in
   measure as we transport ourselves into that time, we feel that the
   Gospels present to us a real, historical scene; that the men and the
   circumstances to which we are introduced are real - not a fancy
   picture, but just such as we know and now recognize them, and would
   expect them to have spoken, or to have been. Again, we shall thus
   vividly realise another and most important aspect of the words of
   Christ. We shall perceive that their form is wholly of the times, their
   cast Jewish - while by the side of this similarity of form there is not
   only essential difference but absolute contrariety of substance and
   spirit. Jesus spoke as truly a Jew to the Jews, but He spoke not as
   they - no, not as their highest and best Teachers would have spoken.
   And this contrariety of spirit with manifest similarity of form is, to
   my mind, one of the strongest evidences of the claims of Christ, since
   it raises the all-important question, whence the Teacher of Nazareth -
   or, shall we say, the humble Child of the Carpenter-home in a far-off
   little place of Galilee - had drawn His inspiration? And clearly to set
   this forth has been the first object of the detailed Rabbinic
   quotations in this book.

   But their further object, besides this vindication, has been the
   illustration of the Gospel-narratives. Even the general reader must be
   aware that some knowledge of Jewish life and society at the time is
   requisite for the understanding of the Gospel-history. Those who have
   consulted the works of Lightfoot, Schöttgen, Meuschen, Wetstein and
   Wünsche, or even the extracts from them presented in Commentaries, know
   that the help derived from their Jewish references is very great. And
   yet, despite the immense learning and industry of these writers, there
   are serious drawbacks to their use. Sometimes the references are
   critically not quite accurate; sometimes they are derived from works
   that should not have been adduced in evidence; occasionally, either the
   rendering, or the application of what is separated from its context, is
   not reliable. A still more serious objection is, that these quotations
   are not unfrequently one sided; but chiefly this - perhaps, as the
   necessary consequence of being merely illustrative notes to certain
   verses in the Gospels - that they do not present a full and connected
   picture. And yet it is this which so often gives the most varied and
   welcome illustration of the Gospel-narratives. In truth, we know not
   only the leading personages in Church and State in Palestine at that
   time, their views, teaching, pursuits, and aims; the state of parties;
   the character of popular opinion; the proverbs, the customs, the daily
   life of the country - but we can, in imagination, enter their
   dwellings, associate with them in familiar intercourse, or follow them
   to the Temple, the Synagogue, the Academy, or to the market-place and
   the workshop. We know what clothes they wore, what dishes they ate,
   what wines they drank, what they produced and what they imported: nay,
   the cost of every article of their dress or food, the price of houses
   and of living; in short, every detail that can give vividness to a
   picture of life.

   All this is so important for the understanding of the Gospel-history
   as, I hope, to justify the fulness of archæological detail in this
   book. And yet I have used only a portion of the materials which I had
   collected for the purpose. And here I must frankly own, as another
   reason for this fulness of detail, that many erroneous and misleading
   statements on this subject, and these even on elementary points, have
   of late been made. Supported by references to the labours of truly
   learned German writers, they have been sometimes set forth with such
   confidence as to impose the laborious and unwelcome duty of carefully
   examining and testing them. But to this only the briefest possible
   reference has been made, and chiefly in the beginning of these volumes.

   Another explanation seems more necessary in this connection. In
   describing the Traditionalism of the time of Christ, I must have said
   what, I fear, may, most unwillingly on my part, wound the feelings of
   some who still cling, if not to the faith of, yet to what now
   represents the ancient Synagogue. But let me appeal to their fairness.
   I must needs state what I believe to be the facts; and I could neither
   keep them back nor soften them, since it was of the very essence of my
   argument to present Christ as both in contact and in contrast with
   Jewish Traditionalism. No educated Western Jew would, in these days,
   confess himself as occupying the exact standpoint of Rabbinic
   Traditionalism. Some will select parts of the system; others will
   allegorise, explain, or modify it; very many will, in heart - often
   also openly - repudiate the whole. And here it is surely not necessary
   for me to rebut or disown those vile falsehoods about the Jews which
   ignorance, cupidity, and bigoted hatred have of late again so strangely
   raised. But I would go further, and assert that, in reference to Jesus
   of Nazareth, no educated Israelite of to-day would identify himself
   with the religious leaders of the people eighteen centuries ago. Yet is
   not this disclaimer of that Traditionalism which not only explains the
   rejection of Jesus, but is the sole logical raison d'être of the
   Synagogue, also its condemnation?

   I know, indeed, that from this negative there is a vast step in advance
   to the positive in the reception of the Gospel, and that many continue
   in the Synagogue, because they are not so convinced of the other as
   truthfully to profess it. And perhaps the means we have taken to
   present it have not always been the wisest. The mere appeal to the
   literal fulfilment of certain prophetic passages in the Old Testament
   not only leads chiefly to critical discussions, but rests the case on
   what is, after all, a secondary line of argumentation. In the New
   Testament prophecies are not made to point to facts, but facts to point
   back to prophecies. The New Testament presents the fulfilment of all
   prophecy rather than of prophecies, and individual predictions serve as
   fingerposts to great outstanding facts, which mark where the roads meet
   and part. And here, as it seems to me, we are at one with the ancient
   Synagogue. In proof, I would call special attention to Appendix IX.,
   which gives a list of all the Old Testament passages Messianically
   applied in Jewish writings. We, as well as they, appeal to all
   Scripture, to all prophecy, as that of which the reality is in the
   Messiah. But we also appeal to the whole tendency and new direction
   which the Gospel presents in opposition to that of Traditionalism; to
   the new revelation of the Father, to the new brotherhood of man, and to
   the satisfaction of the deepest wants of the heart, which Christ has
   brought - in short, to the Scriptural, the moral, and the spiritual
   elements; and we would ask whether all this could have been only the
   outcome of a Carpenter's Son at Nazareth at the time, and amidst the
   surroundings which we so well know.

   In seeking to reproduce in detail the life, opinions, and teaching of
   the contemporaries of Christ, we have also in great measure addressed
   ourselves to what was the third special object in view in this History.
   This was to clear the path of difficulties - in other words, to meet
   such objections as might be raised to the Gospel-narratives. And this,
   as regards principle - not details and minor questions, which will
   cause little uneasiness to the thoughtful and calm reader; quite
   irrespective also of any theory of inspiration which may be proposed,
   and hence of any harmonistic or kindred attempts which may be made.
   Broadly speaking, the attacks on the Gospel-narratives may be grouped
   under these three particulars: they may be represented as intentional
   fraud by the writers, and imposition on the readers; or, secondly, a
   rationalistic explanation may be sought of them, showing how what
   originally had been quite simple and natural was misunderstood by
   ignorance, or perverted by superstition; or, thirdly, they may be
   represented as the outcome of ideas and expectations at the time, which
   gathered around the beloved Teacher of Nazareth, and, so to speak,
   found body in legends that clustered around the Person and Life of Him
   Who was regarded as the Messiah. . . . And this is supposed to account
   for the preaching of the Apostles, for their life-witness, for their
   martyr-death, for the Church, for the course which history has taken,
   as well as for the dearest hopes and experiences of Christian life!

   Of the three modes of criticism just indicated, importance attaches
   only to the third, which has been broadly designated as the mythical
   theory. The fraud-theory seems - as even Strauss admits -
   psychologically so incompatible with admitted facts as regards the
   early Disciples and the Church, and it does such violence to the first
   requirements of historical enquiry, as to make it - at least to me -
   difficult to understand how any thoughtful student could be swayed by
   objections which too often are merely an appeal to the vulgar,
   intellectually and morally, in us. For - to take the historical view of
   the question - even if every concession were made to negative
   criticism, sufficient would still be left in the Christian documents to
   establish a consensus of the earliest belief as to all the great facts
   of the Gospel-History, on which both the preaching of the Apostles and
   the primitive Church have been historically based. And with this
   consensus at least, and its practical outcome, historical enquiry has
   to reckon. And here I may take leave to point out the infinite
   importance, as regards the very foundation of our faith, attaching to
   the historical Church - truly in this also the ekklesia theou zontos,
   stulos kai hedraioma[columna et fulcrum] tes aletheias (the Church of
   the Living God, the pillar and stay [support] of the truth).

   As regards the second class of interpretation - the rationalistic - it
   is altogether so superficial, shadowy and unreal that it can at most be
   only regarded as a passing phase of light-minded attempts to set aside
   felt difficulties.

   But the third mode of explanation, commonly, though perhaps not always
   quite fairly, designated as the mythical, deserves and demands, at
   least in its sober presentation, the serious consideration of the
   historical student. Happily it is also that which, in the nature of it,
   is most capable of being subjected to the test of historical
   examination. For, as previously stated, we possess ample materials for
   ascertaining the state of thought, belief, and expectancy in the time
   of Christ, and of His Apostles. And to this aspect of objections to the
   Gospels the main line of argumentation in this book has been addressed.
   For, if the historical analysis here attempted has any logical force,
   it leads up to this conclusion, that Jesus Christ was, alike in the
   fundamental direction of His teaching and work, and in its details,
   antithetic to the Synagogue in its doctrine, practice, and
   expectancies.

   But even so, one difficulty - we all feel it - remaineth. It is that
   connected with miracles, or rather with the miraculous, since the
   designation, and the difficulty to which it points, must not be limited
   to outward and tangible phenomena. But herein, I venture to say, lies
   also its solution, at least so far as such is possible - since the
   difficulty itself, the miraculous, is of the very essence of our
   thinking about the Divine, and therefore one of the conditions of it:
   at least, in all religions of which the origin is not from within us,
   subjective, but from without us, objective, or, if I may so say, in all
   that claim to be universal religions (catholic thinking). But, to my
   mind, the evidential value of miracles (as frequently set forth in
   these volumes) lies not in what, without intending offence, I may call
   their barely super-naturalistic aspect, but in this, that they are the
   manifestations of the miraculous, in the widest sense, as the essential
   element in revealed religion. Miracles are of chief evidential value,
   not in themselves, but as instances and proof of the direct
   communication between Heaven and earth. And such direct communication
   is, at least, the postulate and first position in all religions. They
   all present to the worshipper some medium of personal communication
   from Heaven to earth - some prophet or other channel of the Divine -
   and some medium for our communication with Heaven. And this is the
   fundamental principle of the miraculous as the essential postulate in
   all religion that purposes again to bind man to God. It proceeds on the
   twofold principle that communication must first come to man from
   Heaven, and then that it does so come. Rather, perhaps, let us say,
   that all religion turns on these two great factors of our inner
   experience: man's felt need and (as implied in it, if we are God's
   creatures) his felt expectancy. And in the Christian Church this is not
   merely matter of the past - it has attained its fullest reality, and is
   a constant present in the indwelling of the Paraclete.

   Yet another part of the task in writing this book remains to be
   mentioned. In the nature of it, such a book must necessarily have been
   more or less of a Commentary on the Gospels. But I have sought to
   follow the text of the Gospels throughout, and separately to consider
   every passage in them, so that, I hope, I may truthfully designate it
   also a Commentary on the Four Gospels - though an informal one. And
   here I may be allowed to state that throughout I have had the general
   reader in view, reserving for the foot-notes and Appendices what may be
   of special interest to students. While thankfully availing myself of
   all critical help within my reach - and here I may perhaps take the
   liberty of specially singling out Professor Westcott's Commentary on
   St. John - I have thought it right to make the sacred text the subject
   of fresh and independent study. The conclusions at which I arrived I
   would present with the more deference, that, from my isolated position,
   I had not, in writing these volumes, the inestimable advantage of
   personal contact, on these subjects, with other students of the sacred
   text.

   It only remains to add a few sentences in regard to other matters -
   perhaps of more interest to myself than to the reader. For many years I
   had wished and planned writing such a book, and all my previous studies
   were really in preparation for this. But the task was actually
   undertaken at the request of the Publishers, of whose kindness and
   patience I must here make public acknowledgment. For, the original term
   fixed for writing it was two or three years. It has taken me seven
   years of continual and earnest labour - and, even so, I feel as if I
   would fain, and ought to, spend other seven years upon what could, at
   most, be touching the fringe of this great subject. What these seven
   years have been to me I could not attempt to tell. In a remote country
   parish, entirely isolated from all social intercourse, and amidst not a
   few trials, parochial duty has been diversified and relieved by many
   hours of daily work and of study - delightful in and for itself. If any
   point seemed not clear to my own mind, or required protracted
   investigation, I could give days of undisturbed work to what to others
   might perhaps seem secondary, but was all-important to me. And so these
   seven years passed - with no other companion in study than my daughter,
   to whom I am indebted, not only for the Index Rerum, but for much else,
   especially for a renewed revision, in the proof-sheets, of the
   references made throughout these volumes. What labour and patience this
   required every reader will perceive - although even so I cannot hope
   that no misprint or slip of the pen has escaped our detection.

   And now I part from this book with thankfulness to Almighty God for
   sparing me to complete it, with lingering regret that the task is
   ended, but also with unfeigned diffidence. I have, indeed, sought to
   give my best and most earnest labour to it, and to write what I
   believed to be true, irrespective of party or received opinions. This,
   in such a book, was only sacred duty. But where study necessarily
   extended to so many, and sometimes new, departments, I cannot hope
   always to carry the reader with me, or, which is far more serious - to
   have escaped all error. My deepest and most earnest prayer is that He,
   in Whose Service I have desired to write this book, would graciously
   accept the humble service - forgive what is mistaken and bless what is
   true. And if anything personal may intrude into these concluding lines,
   I would fain also designate what I have written as Apologia pro vita
   mea (alike in its fundamental direction and even ecclesiastically) -
   if, indeed, that may be called an Apologia which is the confession of
   this inmost conviction of mind and heart: Lord, to Whom shall we go?
   The words of eternal life hast Thou! And we have believed and know that
   Thou art the Holy One of God.'

   ALFRED EDERSHEIM.

   8 BRADMORE ROAD, OXFORD:

   September 1883

     __________________________________________________________________

   [1] Comp. the historical account of these symbols in Zahn, Forsch. z.
   Gesch. d. Neu-Test. Kanons, ii. pp. 257-275.
     __________________________________________________________________

                                     PREFACE
                                     TO THE
                           SECOND AND THIRD EDITIONS.


   IN issuing a new edition of this book I wish, in the first place, again
   to record, as the expression of permanent convictions and feelings,
   some remarks with which I had prefaced the Second Edition, although
   happily they are not at present so urgently called for.

   With the feelings of sincere thankfulness for the kindness with which
   this book was received by all branches of the Church, only one element
   of pain mingled. Although I am well convinced that a careful or
   impartial reader could not arrive at any such conclusion, yet it was
   suggested that a perverse ingenuity might abuse certain statements and
   quotations for what in modern parlance are termed Anti-Semitic'
   purposes. That any such thoughts could possibly attach to a book
   concerning Him, Who was Himself a Jew; Who in the love of His
   compassion wept tears of bitter anguish over the Jerusalem that was
   about to crucify Him, and Whose first utterance and prayer when nailed
   to the Cross was: Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do'
   - would seem terribly incongruous and painful. Nor can it surely be
   necessary to point out that the love of Christ, or the understanding of
   His Work and Mission, must call forth feelings far different from those
   to which reference has been made. To me, indeed, it is difficult to
   associate the so-called Anti-Semitic movement with any but the lowest
   causes: envy, jealousy, and cupidity on the one hand; or, on the other,
   ignorance, prejudice, bigotry, and hatred of race. But as these are
   times when it is necessary to speak unmistakably, I avail myself of the
   present opportunity to point out the reasons why any Talmudic
   quotations, even if fair, can have no application for Anti-Semitic'
   purposes.

   First: It is a mistake to regard everything in Talmudic writings about
   the Gentiles' as presently applying to Christians. Those spoken of are
   characterised as the worshippers of idols,' of stars and planets,' and
   by similar designations. That the heathens' of those days and lands
   should have been suspected of almost any abomination, deemed capable of
   any treachery or cruelty towards Israel, - no student of history can
   deem strange, especially when the experience of so many terrible wrongs
   (would they had been confined to the heathen and to those times!) would
   naturally lead to morbidly excited suspicions and apprehensions.

   Secondly: We must remember the times, the education, and the general
   standpoint of that period as compared with our own. No one would
   measure the belief of Christians by certain statements in the Fathers,
   nor judge the moral principles of Roman Catholics by prurient
   quotations from the Casuists; nor yet estimate the Lutherans by the
   utterances and deeds of the early successors of Luther, nor Calvinists
   by the burning of Servetus. In all such cases the general standpoint of
   the times has to be first taken into account. And no educated Jew would
   share the follies and superstitions, nor yet sympathise with the
   suspicions or feelings towards even the most hostile and depraved
   heathens, that may be quoted from the Talmud.

   Thirdly: Absolutely the contrary of all this has been again and again
   set forth by modern Jewish writers. Even their attempts to explain away
   certain quotations from the Talmud - unsuccessful though, in my view,
   some of them are - afford evidence of their present repudiation of all
   such sentiments. I would here specially refer to such work as Dr.
   Grünebaum's Ethics of Judaism' (Sittenlehre d. Judenthums') - a book
   deeply interesting also as setting forth the modern Jewish view of
   Christ and His Teaching, and accordant (though on different grounds)
   with some of the conclusions expressed in this book, as regards certain
   incidents in the History of Christ. The principles expressed by Dr.
   Grünebaum, and other writers, are such as for ever to give the lie to
   Anti-Semitic charges. And although he and others, with quite proper
   loyalty, labour to explain certain Talmudic citations, yet it
   ultimately comes to the admission that Talmudic sayings are not the
   criterion and rule of present duty, even as regards the heathen - still
   less Christians, to whom they do not apply.

   What has just been stated, while it fully disposes of all
   Anti-Semitism,' only the more clearly sets forth the argument which
   forms the main proposition of this book. Here also we have the highest
   example. None loved Israel so intensely, even unto death, as Jesus of
   Nazareth; none made such withering denunciations as He of Jewish
   Traditionalism, in all its branches, and of its Representatives. It is
   with Traditionalism, not the Jews, that our controversy lies. And here
   we cannot speak too plainly nor decidedly. It might, indeed, be argued,
   apart from any proposed different applications, that on one or another
   point opinions of a different kind may also be adduced from other
   Rabbis. Nor is it intended to convey unanimity of opinion on every
   subject. For, indeed, such scarcely existed on any one point - not on
   matters of fact, nor even often on Halakhic questions. And this also is
   characteristic of Rabbinism. But it must be remembered that we are here
   dealing with the very text-book of that sacred and Divine
   Traditionalism, the basis and substance of Rabbinism, for which such
   unlimited authority and absolute submission are claimed; and hence,
   that any statement admitted into its pages, even though a different
   view were also to be adduced, possesses an authoritative and a
   representative character. And this further appears from the fact that
   the same statements are often repeated in other documents, besides that
   in which they were originally made, and that they are also supported by
   other statements, kindred and parallel in spirit.

   In truth, it has throughout been my aim to present, not one nor another
   isolated statement or aspect of Rabbinism, but its general teaching and
   tendency. In so doing I have, however, purposely left aside certain
   passages which, while they might have most fully brought out the sad
   and strange extravagances to which Rabbinism could go, would have
   involved the unnecessary quotation of what is not only very painful in
   itself, but might have furnished an occasion to enemies of Israel.
   Alike the one and the other it was my most earnest desire to avoid. And
   by the side of these extravagances there is so much in Jewish writings
   and life - the outcome of Old Testament training - that is noblest and
   most touching, especially as regards the social virtues, such as
   purity, kindness, and charity, and the acknowledgment of God in
   sufferings, as well as their patient endurance. On the other hand, it
   is difficult to believe that even the vehement assertions of partisans
   on the other side, supported by isolated sayings, sometimes torn from
   their context, or by such coincidences as are historically to be
   expected, will persuade those who keep in view either the words of
   Christ or His history and that of the Apostles, that the relation
   between Christianity in its origin, as the fulfilment of the Old
   Testament, and Traditionalism, as the externalised development of its
   letter, is other than that of which these volumes furnish both the
   explanation and the evidence. In point of fact, the attentive student
   of history will observe that a similar protest against the bare letter
   underlies Alexandrianism and Philo - although there from the side of
   reason and apologetically, in the New Testament from the aspect of
   spiritual life and for its full presentation.

   Thus much - somewhat reluctantly written, because approaching
   controversy - seemed necessary by way of explanation. The brief
   interval between the First and Second Editions rendered only a
   superficial revision possible, as then indicated. For the present
   edition the whole work has once more been revised, chiefly with the
   view of removing from the numerous marginal Talmudic references such
   misprints as were observed. In the text and notes, also, a few errata
   have been corrected, or else the meaning rendered more clear. In one or
   two places fresh notes have been made; some references have been struck
   out, and others added. These notes will furnish evidence that the
   literature of the subject, since the first appearance of these volumes,
   has not been neglected, although it seemed unnecessary to swell the
   List of Authorities' by the names of all the books since published or
   perused. Life is too busy and too short to be always going back on
   one's traces. Nor, indeed, would this be profitable. The further
   results of reading and study will best be embodied in further labours,
   please God, in continuation of those now completed. Opportunity may
   then also occur for the discussion of some questions which had
   certainly not been overlooked, although this seemed not the proper
   place for them: such as that of the composition of the Apostolic
   writings.

   And so, with great thankfulness for what service this book has been
   already allowed to perform, I would now send it forth on its new
   journey, with this as my most earnest hope and desire: that, in however
   humble a manner, it may be helpful for the fuller and clearer setting
   forth of the Life of Him Who is the Life of all our life.

   A. E.

   OXFORD: March 1886.

     __________________________________________________________________

                              LIST OF AUTHORITIES

   CHIEFLY USED IN WRITING THIS BOOK.

   Alford: Greek Testament.

   Von der Alm: Heidn. u. jüd. Urtheile über Jesu u. die alten Christen.

   Altingius: Dissertationes et Orationes.

   Apocrypha: S.P.C.K. Commentary on. The Apocryphal Gospels.

   Auerbach: Berith Abraham.

   Bacher: Die Agada der Babylon. Amoräer.

   Bäck: Geschichte des Jüd. Volkes u.seiner Literatur.

   Baedeker: Syrien u. Palästina.

   Bähr: Gesetz über Falsche Zeugen nach Bible u. Talmud.

   Barclay: City of the Great King.

   Beer: Leben Abraham's.

   Beer: Leben Mosis.

   Beer, P.: Geschichte d. relig. Sekten d. Juden.

   Bengel: Gnomon Novi Testamenti.

   Bengel: Alter der jüdischen Proselytentaufe.

   Bergel: Naturwissenschaftliche Kenntnisse d. Talmudisten.

   Bergel: Der Himmel u. seine Wunder.

   Bergel: Die Eheverhältnisse der alten Juden.

   Berliner, Dr. A.: Targum Onkelos.

   Bertholdt: Christologie Judæorum. Testaments.

   Beyschlag: Die Christologie des Neuen Testaments.

   Beyschlag: Zur Johanneischen Frage.

   Bickell: Die Entstehung der Liturgie aus der Einsetzungsfeier.

   Bleek: Einleitung in dasa Neue Testament. ed. Mangold.

   Bleek: Synoptische Erklärung d. drei Evangelien.

   Bloch: Studien z. Gesch. der Sammlung d althebr. Literatur.

   Bloch: Das Mosaisch-talmud. Polizeirecht.

   Bloch: Civilprocess-Ordnung nach Mos. rabb. Rechte.

   Bochartus: Hierozoicon.

   Bodek: Marcus Aurelius u. R. Jehudah.

   Bodenschatz: Kirchliche Verfassung der heutigen Juden.

   Böhl: Forschungen nach einer Volks bibel zur Zeit Jesu.

   Böhl: Alttestamentliche Citate im N. T.

   Bonar: The Land of Promise.

   Braun: Die Söhne des Herodes.

   Braunius: De Vestitu Hebræorum.

   Brecher: DasTranscendentale im Talmud.

   Bredow: Rabbinische Mythen, &c.

   Brückner: Die Versuchungsgeschichte unseres Herrn Jesu Christi.

   Brück: Rabbinische Ceremonialgebräuche.

   Brüll: Fremdsprachliche Redensarten im Talmud.

   Brüll: Trachten der Juden.

   Buber: Pesikta.

   Bucher: Des Apostels Johannes Lehre vom Logos.

   Burgon: The Last Twelve Verses of St. Mark.

   Buxtorf: Exercitationes.

   Buxtorf: Synagoga Judaica.

   Buxtorf; Lexicon Talmud.

   Calvin: Comment. (passim).

   Cahen: Repertorium Talmudioum.

   Carpzov: Chuppa Hebræorium.

   Caspari: Einleitung in das Leben Jesu Christi.

   Cassel: Das Buch Kusari.

   Cassel: Lehrbuch der Jud. Gesch, u. Literatur.

   Castelli: Commento di Sabbatai Donnolo sul libro della Creazione.

   Castelli: Il Messia secondo gli Ebrei.

   Cavedoni: Biblische Numismatik.

   Charteris: Canonicity.

   Chasronoth Hashas.

   Cheyne: Prophecies of Isaiah.

   Chijs: De Herode Magno.

   Cohen: Les Déicides.

   Commentaries, Speaker's, on the Gospels; Camb. Bible on the Gospels.

   Conder: Tent Work in Palestine.

   Conder: Handbook to the Bible.

   Conforte: Liber Kore ha-Dorot.

   Cook: The Rev. Version of the Gospels.

   Creizenach: Shulcan Aruch.

   Cremer: New Testament Dictionary.

   Cureton: Syriac Gospels.

   Dähne: Jüdisch-Alex. Religionsphilos.

   Davidson: Introduction to the Study of the New Testament.

   Davidson: The Last Things.

   Dachs: Codex Succa Talmudis Babylonici.

   Danko: Historia Revelationis Divinae N. T.

   Danko: De Sacra Scriptura ejusque interpretatione Commentarius.

   Delaunay: Moines et Sibylles dans l'antiquité Judéo-Grecque.

   Delitzsch: Handwerkerleben zur Zeit Jesu.

   Delitzsch: Geschichte der jüd. Poesie.

   Delitzsch: Durch Krankheit zur Genesung.

   Delitzsch: Ein Tag in Capernaum.

   Delitzsch: Untersuchungen üb. die Entsteh. u. Anlage d. Matth-Evang.

   Delitzsch; Talmudische Studien.

   Delitzsch: Jesus und Hillel.

   Derenbourg: Essai sur l'Histoire et la Géographie de la Palestine.

   Deutsch: Literary Remains.

   Deylingius: Observationes Sacræ.

   Dillmann: Das Buch Henoch.

   Döllinger: Heidenthum und Judenthum.

   Drummond: The Jewish Messiah.

   Dukes: Zur Rabbinischen Sprachkunde.

   Dukes: Rabbinische Blumenlese.

   Duschak: Zur Botanik des Talmud.

   Duschak: Die Moral der Evangelien und des Talmud.

   Duschak: Jüdischer Cultus.

   Duschak: Schulgesetzgebung.

   Ebrard: Wissenschaftliche Kritik der evangel. Geschichte.

   Edersheim: History of the Jewish Nation.

   Edersheim: The Temple, its Ministry and its Services.

   Edersheim: Sketches of Jewish Social Life.

   Ehrmann: Geschichte der Schulen u. der Cultur unter den Juden.

   Eisenmenger: Entdecktes Judenthum.

   Eisler: Beiträge zur Rabb. Sprach- u. Alterthums-kunde.

   Ellicott: New Testament Commentary: Gospels.

   Ellicott: Lectures on the Life of our Lord.

   Encyclopaedia Britannica (passim).

   Etheridge: The Targums on the Pentateuch.

   Eusebius: Ecclesiastical History.

   Ewald: Abodah Sarah.

   Ewald: Geschichte des Volkes Israel.

   Ewald: Bibl. Jahrb. (passim).

   Fabricius: Codex Pseudepigraphus V.T.

   Farrar: Life of Christ.

   Farrar: Eternal Hope.

   Fassel: Das Mos. rabb. Civilrecht.

   Fassel: Gerichts-Verf.

   Field: Otium Norvicense.

   Filipowski: Liber Juchassin.

   Fisher: Beginnings of Christianity.

   Frankel: Targum der Proph.

   Frankel: Ueb. d. Einfl. d. palast. Exegese auf die Alexandr.
   Hermeneutik.

   Frankel: Monatschrift fur das Judenthum (passim).

   Frankel: Vorstudien zu der Septuaginta.

   Frankel: Einleitung in d. Jerusalem Talmud.

   Franck: d. Kabbala.

   Freudenthal: Hellenistische Studien.

   Friedenthal: Jessode haddat weikere Haemuna.

   Friedlaender: Sittengeschichte Roms.

   Friedlaender: Ben Dosa u. seine Zeit.

   Friedlaender: Patristische u. Talmudische Studien.

   Friedlieb: Oracula Subyllina.

   Friedlieb: Archäologie der Leidensge schichte.

   Friedmann: Siphré debe Rab.

   Fritzsche u. Grimm: Handbuch zu den Apokryphen.

   Fritzsche u. Grimm: Libri V. T. Pseudepigraphi Selecti.

   Fuller: Harmony of the Four Gospels.

   Fürst: Der Kanon des A. T.

   Fürst: Kultur u. Literaturgeschichte der Juden in Asien.

   Fürst: Biblioth. Jüd. (passim).

   Fürstenthal: Menorath Hammaor.

   Fürstenthal: Jessode haddat.

   Geier: De Ebraeorum Luctu Lugentiumque Ritibus.

   Geiger: Das Judenthum u. seine Geschichte.

   Geiger: Beiträge z. Jüd. Literatur-Gesch.

   Geiger: Zeitschrift fur Jud. Theol. (passim).

   Geiger: Urschrift u. Uebersetzungen der Bibel.

   Geikie: Life and Words of Christ.

   Gelpke: Die Jugendgesch. des Herrn.

   Gerlach: Die Röm. Statthälter in Syrien u Judäa.

   Gfrörer: Philo.

   Gfrörer: Jahrh. d. Heils.

   Ginsburg: Ben Chajim's Introd.

   Ginsburg: Massoreth Ha-Massoreth.

   Ginsburg: The Essenes.

   Ginsburg: The Kabbalah.

   Godet: Commentar.

   Godet: Bibl. Studies.

   Goebel: Die Parabeln Jesu.

   Goldberg: The Language of Christ.

   Graetz: Geschichte der Juden.

   Green: Handbk. to the Grammar of the Grk. Test.

   Grimm: Die Samariter.

   Grimm: Clavis N. T.

   Gronemann: Die Jonathansche Pentateuch-Uebersetzung.

   Grünebaum: Sittenlehre des Judenthums.

   Guérin: Description de la Palestine et Samarie.

   Guillemard: Hebraisms in the Greek Testament.

   Günzburg: Beleuchtung des alten Judenthums.

   Hamburger: Real Encyklopädie f. Bibel u. Talmud.

   Hamelsveia: Dissertatio de aedibus vet. Hebr.

   Haneberg: Die relig. Alterth. der Bibel.

   Harnoch: De Philonis Judaei Log. Inquisitio.

   Hartmann: Die Hebräerin am Putztische u. als Braut.

   Hartmann: Die enge Verbindung des A. T. mit dem Neuen.

   Hase: Leben Jesu.

   Haupt: Die A. T. Citate in den 4 Evangelien.

   Hausrath: Neutestamentliche zeitgeschichte.

   Herzfeld: Geschichte Israels.

   Herzfeld: Handelsgeschichte der Juden des Alterthums.

   Herzog: Real-Encyklopädie (passim).

   Hildesheimer: Der Herod. Tempel n. d. Talmud u. Josephus.

   Hilgenfeld: Jüdische Apokalyptik.

   Hirschfeld: Halach. u. Hagad. Exegese.

   Hirschfeld: Tractatus Macot. Hitzig: Geschichte des Volkes Israel.

   Hoffmann: Leben Jesu.

   Hofmann: Schriftbeweis.

   Hofmann: Weissagung u. Erfullung.

   Hoffmann: Abhandlungen üb. die Pentat. Gesetze.

   Holdheim: d. Cerem. Ges.

   Hottinger: Juris Hebr. Leges.

   Huschke: Ueb. d. Census u. die Steuerverf. d. früh. Röm. Kaiserzeit.

   Huschke: Ueb. d. z. Zeit d. Geb. Jesu Christi gehaltenen Census.

   Havercamp: Flavius Josephus.

   Ideler: Chronologie.

   Ikenius: Antiquitates Hebraicæ.

   Ikenius: Dissertationes Philologico-theologicæ.

   Jellinek: Beth ha-Midrash.

   Joel: Blick in d. Religionsgesch. d. 2ten Christlichen Jahrh.

   Joel: Religionsphilos. des Sohar.

   Jost: Gesch. d. Judenth. u. seiner Sekten.

   Jowett: Epistles of St. Paul, Romans, Galatians, Thessalonians.

   Josephus Gorionides: ed. Breithaupt.

   Juynboll: Comment. in Hist. Gentis Samaritanæ.

   Keil: Einl. in. d. Kanon. u. Apokryph. Schriften des A. T.

   Keim: Geschichte Jesu von Nazara.

   Kennedy: Resurrection of Jesus Christ.

   Kirchheim: Septem Libri Talmudici parvi Hierosol.

   Kirchner: Jud. Passahf.

   Kitto: Cyclopaedia of Biblical Literature (passim).

   Kobut: Jüdische Angelologie u. Daemonologie.

   König: Die Menschwerdung Gottes.

   Köster: Nachw. d. Spur. einer Trinitätslehre vor Christo.

   Krafft: Jüdische Sagen u. Dichtungen.

   Krauss: Die Grosse Synode.

   Krebs: Decreta Athen in honor Hyrcani P. M. Judæorum.

   Krebs: Decreta Roman. pro Judæis.

   Krebs: Observationes in Nov. Test.

   Kuhn: Städt. u. bürgerl. Verfass d. Röm. Reichs.

   Landau: Arukh.

   Lange: Bibelwerk (on Gospels).

   Langen: Judenthum in Palästina z. Zeit Christi.

   Lange: Leben Jesu.

   Langfelder: Symbolik des Judenthums.

   Lattes: Saggio di Giunte e Correzzioni al Lessico Talmudico.

   Lavadeur: Krit. Beleucht. d. jüd Kalenderwesens.

   Lenormant: Chaldean Magic.

   Levi: Historia Religionis Judæorum.

   Levy: Neuhebr. u. Chaldäisch. Wörterbuch.

   Levy: Chaldäisch. Wörterb. über die Targumim.

   Levy: Gesch. der Jüdisch. Münzen.

   Levyssohn: Disputatio de Jud. sub. Cæs. Conditione.

   Lewin: Fasti Sacri.

   Lewin: Siege of Jerusalem.

   Lewyssohn: Zoologie des Talmuds.

   Lightfoot: Horæ Hebraicæ et Talmudicæ in 4 Evangel.

   Lightfoot: Commentary on Galatians.

   Lightfoot: Commentary on Colossians.

   Lisco: Die Wunder Jesu Christi.

   Low: Beiträge z. jüd Alterthumskunde.

   Low: Lebensalter in d. jüd. Literatur.

   Löwe: Schulchan Aruch.

   Lowy: Biggoreth ha Talmud.

   Lucius: Essenismus in sein Verhältn z. Judenth.

   Lücke: Johannes (Gospel).

   Lundius: Jüdische Heiligthumer.

   Luthardt: Johann. Evangelium.

   Luthardt: Die modern. Darstell. d. Lebens Jesu.

   Lutterbeck: Neutestamentliche Lehrbegriffe.

   McLellan: New Testament (Gospels).

   Madden: Coins of the Jews.

   Maimonides: Yad haChazzakah.

   Marcus: Pädagogik des Talmud.

   Marquardt: Röm, Staatsverwaltung.

   Martinus: Fidei Pugio.

   Maybaum: Die Anthropomorph. u. Anthropopath. bei Onkelos.

   Megillath Taanith.

   Meier: Judaica.

   Meuschen: Nov. Test ex Talmude et Joseph.

   Meyer: Seder Olam Rabba et Suta.

   Meyer: Buch Jezira.

   Meyer: Kommentar. (on Gospels).

   Meyer: Arbeit u. Handwerk. im Talmud.

   Midrash Rabboth.

   Midrashim. (See List in Rabb. Abbrev.)

   Mill: On the Mythical Interpretation of the Gospels.

   Mishnah.

   Molitor: Philosophie der Geschichte.

   Moscovitor: Het N. T. en de Talmud.

   Müller: Mess. Erwart. d. Jud. Philo.

   Müller: Zur Johann Frage.

   Müller, J.: Massech. Sopher.

   Münter: Stern der Weisen

   Nanz: Die Besessenen im N. T.

   Neander: Life of Christ.

   Nebe: Leidensgesch. unser. Herrn Jesu Christi.

   Nebe: Auferstehungsgesch. unser. Herrn Jesu Christi.

   Neubauer: La Géographie du Talmud.

   Neubauer and Driver: Jewish Interpreters of Isaiah. liii.

   Neumann: Messian. Erschein. bei d. Juden.

   Neumann: Gesch. d. Mess. Weissag. im A. T.

   New Testament. Ed. Scrivener. Ed. Westcott and Hort. Ed. Gebhardt.

   Nicolai: De Sepulchris Hebræorum.

   Nizzachon Vetus. et Toledoth Jeshu.

   Nicholson: The Gospel accord. to the Hebrews.

   Norris: New Testament (Gospels).

   Nork: Rabbinische Quellen u. Parallelen.

   Nutt: Samaritan History.

   Otho: Lexicon Rabbin. Philolog.

   Outram: De Sacrificiis Judæor et Christi.

   Othijoth de R. Akiba.

   Oxlee: Doc. of Trinity on Princips. of Judaism.

   Pagninus: Thesaurus Linguæ Sanctæ.

   Palestine Exploration Fund Quarterly Statements (passim).

   Perles: Liechenfeierlichk. im Nachbibl, Judenth.

   Philippson: Haben wirklich die Jud. Jesum gekreuzigt?

   Philippson: Israelit. Religionslehre.

   Philo Judæus: Opera.

   Pictorial Palestine (passim).

   Picturesque Palestine.

   Pinner: Berachoth.

   Pinner: Compend. des Hieros. u. Babyl. Thalm.

   Pirké de R. Elieser.

   Plumptre: Comment. on the Gospels.

   Plumptre: Bible Educator (passim).

   Pocock: Porta Mosis.

   Prayer-books, Jewish: i. Arnheim. ii. Mannheimer. iii. Polak (Frankfort
   ed.). iv. Friedländer. v. F. A. Euchel. vi. Jacobson. vii. Pesach
   Haggadah. viii. Rodelheim ed.

   Pressensé: Jesus Christ: His Time, Life, and Works.

   Prideaux: Connec. of O. and N.T.

   Pusey: What is of Faith as to Everlasting Punishment?

   Rabbinowicz: Einleit. in d. Gesetzgeb. u. Medicin d. Talm.

   Ravuis: Dissertat. de. aedib. vet. Hebr.

   Redslob: Die Kanonisch. Evangelien.

   Reland: Antiquit. Sacr. veter. Hebr.

   Reland: Palæstina.

   Remond: Ausbreit. d. Judenthums.

   Renan: L'Antéchrist.

   Renan: Vie de Jésus.

   Renan: Marc-Auréle.

   Rhenferd et Vitringa: De Decem Otiosis Synagogæ.

   Riehm: Handwörterb. d. bibl. Alterth. (passim).

   Riehm: Lehrbegriff d. Hebraerbriefs.

   Riess: Geburtsjahr Christi.

   Ritter: Philo u. die Halacha.

   Roberts: Discussion on the Gospels.

   Robinson: Biblical Researches in Palestine.

   Roeth: Epistoia ad Hebraeos.

   Rohr: Palästina z. Zeit Christi.

   Rönsch: Buch Jubiläen.

   Roos: Lehre u. Lebensgesch. Jesu Christi.

   Rösch: Jesus-Mythen d. Talmudist.

   Rosenmüller: Biblisch. Geographie.

   Rossi, Azarjah de: Meor Enajim.

   Rossi, Giambernardo de: Della Lingua Propria di Christo.

   Sachs: Beiträge z. Sprach u. Alterthumskunde.

   Saalschütz: Musik bei d. Hebraern.

   Saalschütz: Mos. Recht.

   Salvador: Römerherrschaft in Judæa.

   Salvador: Gesch. d. Jud. Volkes.

   Sammter: Baba Mezia.

   Schenkel: Bibel-Lexicon (passim).

   Schleusner: Lexicon Gr. Lat. in N.T.

   Schmer: De Chuppa Hebræorum.

   Schmilg: Der Siegeskalender Megill Taanith.

   Schneckenburger: Neutestament. Zeitgeschichte.

   Schoettgen: Horæ Hebraicæ et Talmudicæ.

   Schreiber: Principien des Judenthums.

   Schroederus: Comment. de Vestitu Mulier. Hebr.

   Schürer: Neutestam. Zeitgesch.

   Schürer: Gemeindeverfass. d. Juden in Rom in d. Kaiserzeit.

   Schwab: Le Talmud de Jérusalem.

   Schwarz: D. Heilige Land.

   Schwarz: Tosifta Shabbath.

   Scrivener: Introduction to the Criticism of the New Testament.

   Seder Hadoroth.

   Selden: De Synedriis Ebr.

   Selden: De Jure Naturali et Gent. Hebr.

   Selden: Uxor Ebraica.

   Sepp: Leben Jesu.

   Sevin: Chronologie des Lebens Jesu.

   Sheringham: Joma.

   Siegfried: Philo von Alexandria.

   Singer: Onkelos u. seine Verhältn. z. Halacha.

   Sion Ledorosh.

   Smith: Dictionary of the Bible (passim).

   Smith and Wace: Dictionary of Christian Biography (passim).

   Sohar.

   Tikkuné haSohar.

   Saloweyczyk: Bibel, Talmud, u. Evangelium.

   Sommer: Mispar haSohar.

   Spencer: De Legib. Hebr. Ritual.

   Spiess: Das Jerusalem des Josephus.

   Spitzer: Das Mahl bei den Hebräern.

   Stanley: Sinai and Palestine.

   Steinmeyer: Geburt des Herrn u. seinerste Schritte im Leben.

   Steinmeyer: Die Parabeln des Herrn

   Stein: Schrift des Lebens.

   Stern: Die Frau im Talmud.

   Stern: Gesch. des Judenthums.

   Stier: Reden des Herrn Jesu.

   Strack: Pirké Aboth.

   Strack: Proleg. Crit. in V.T. Hebr.

   Strauss: Leben Jesu.

   Supernatural Religion.

   Surenhusius: Biblos Katallages.

   Surenhusius: Mishnah.

   Talmud, Babylon and Jerusalem.

   Targum, the Targumim in the Mikraoth gedoloth.

   Taylor: Sayings of the Jewish Fathers (Pirqé Ab., &c.), with critical
   and illutrative Notes.

   Taylor: Great Exemplar.

   Tauchuma: Midrash.

   Thein: Der Talmud.

   Theologische Studien u. Kritiken (passim).

   Tholuck: Bergpredigt Christi.

   Tholuck: Das Alt. Test. im Neu. Test.

   Tischendorf: When were our Gospels written?

   Toetterman: R. Eliezer ben Hyrcanus.

   Traill: Josephus.

   Trench: Notes on the Miracles

   Trench: Notes on the Parables.

   Tristram: Natural History of the Bible.

   Tristram: Land of Israel.

   Tristram: Land of Moab. d. alt. Hebr.

   Trusen: Sitten, Gebräuche u. Krankheiten.

   Ugolinus: Thesaurus Antiquitatum Sacrarum (passim).

   Unruh: Das alte Jerusalem u. seine Bauwerke.

   Vernes: Histoire des Idées Messianiques.

   Vitringa: De Synagoga Vetere.

   Volkmar: Einleitung in die Apokryphen.

   Volkmar: Marcus.

   Volkmar: Mose Prophetie u. Himmel fahrt.

   Vorstius: De Hebraisms Nov. Test.

   Wace: The Gospel and its Witnesses.

   Wagenseil: Sota. Wahl: Clavis Nov. Test. Philologica.

   Warneck: Pontius Pilatus.

   Watkins: Gospel of St. John.

   Weber: Johannes der Täufer u. die Parteien seiner Zeit.

   Weber: System der altsynagog. paläst. Theologie. B.

   Weiss: Lehrb. d. bibl. Theol. des N.T.

   Weiss: Mechilta.

   Weiss: Siphra B.

   Weiss: Matthäusevangelium. B.

   Weiss: Leben Jesu.

   Weiss: Geschichte. der jüd. Tradition.

   Weizsäcker: Untersuch. üb. die evangel. Geschichte.

   Wellhausen: Die Pharisäer u. die Sadducäer.

   Westcott: Introduction to the Study of the Gospels.

   Westcott: On the Canon of the New Testament.

   Westcott: Gospel of St. John.

   Wetstein: Novum Testamentum Graecum (Gospels).

   Wichelhaus: Kommentar zur Leidensgeschichte.

   Wieseler: Beiträge zu den Evange. u. der Evangel. Gesch.

   Wieseler: Chronol. Synopse der 4 Evangelien.

   Wiesner: d. Bann in s. Gesch. Entwickelung.

   Winer: Biblisches Realwörterbuch (passim).

   Winer: De Onkeloso.

   Wilson: Recovery of Jerusalem.

   Wittichen: Die Idee des Reiches Gottes.

   Wittichen: Leben Jesu.

   Wolfius: Bibliotheca Hebræa (passim).

   Wordsworth: Commentary (Gospels).

   Wunderbar: Bibl. talmud. Medecin.

   Wünsche: Die Leiden des Messias.

   Wünsche: Neue Beiträge z. Erlaut. der Evangel.

   Wünsche: Der Jerusalemische Talmud.

   Wünsche: Bibliotheca Rabbinica.

   Yalkut Shimeoni.

   Yalkut Rubeni.

   Young: Christology of the Targums.

   Zahn: Forsch. zur Gesch. d. N.T. Kanous.

   Zeller: Philosophie der Griechen.

   Zemach David.

   Zimmermann: Karten u. Pläne z. Topographie des alten Jerusalems.

   Zockler: Handb. d. Theol. Wissenschaften.

   Zumpt: Geburtsjahr Christi.

   Zunz: Zur Geschichte u. Literatur.

   Zunz: Die Gottesdienstl. Vortr. d. Juden

   Zunz: Synagogale Poesie.

   Zunz: Ritus d. Synagogalen-Gottesdienst.

   Zuckermandel: Tosephta.

     __________________________________________________________________

                   LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS USED IN REFERENCE TO
                     RABBINIC WRITINGS QUOTED IN THIS WORK.


   THE Mishnah is always quoted according to Tractate, Chapter (Pereq) and
   Paragraph (Mishnah), the Chapter being marked in Roman, the paragraph
   in ordinary Numerals. Thus Ber. ii. 4 means the Mishnic Tractate
   Berakhoth, second Chapter, fourth Paragraph.

   The Jerusalem Talmud is distinguished by the abbreviation Jer. before
   the name of the Tractate. Thus, Jer. Ber. is the Jer. Gemara, or
   Talmud, of the Tractate Berakhoth. The edition, from which quotations
   are made, is that commonly used, Krotoschin, 1866, 1 vol. fol. The
   quotations are made either by Chapter and Paragraph (Jer. Ber. ii. 4),
   or, in these volumes mostly, by page and column.  It ought to be noted
   that in Rabbinic writings each page is really a double one,
   distinguished respectively as a and b: a being the page to the left
   hand of the reader, and b the reverse one (on turning over the page) to
   the right hand of the reader. But in the Jerusalem Gemara (and in
   Yalkut [see below], as in all works where the page and column (col.)
   are mentioned) the quotation is often - in these volumes, mostly - made
   by page and column (two columns being on each side of a page). Thus,
   while Jer. Ber. ii. 4 would be Chapter II. Par. 4, the corresponding
   quotation by page and column would in that instance be, Jer. Ber. 4 d;
   d marking that it is the fourth column in b (or the off-side) of page
   4.

   The Babyl. Talmud is, in all its editions, equally paged, so that a
   quotation made applies to all editions. It is double-paged, and quoted
   with the name of the Tractate, the number of the page, and a or b
   according as one or another side of the page is referred to. The
   quotations are distinguished from those of the Mishnah by this, that in
   the Mihnah Roman and ordinary numerals are employed (to mark Chapters
   and Paragraphs), while in the Babylon Talmud the name of the Tractate
   is followed by an ordinary numeral, indicating the page, together with
   a or b, to mark which side of the page is referred to. Thus Ber. 4 a
   means:  Tractate Berachoth, p. 4, first or left-hand side of the page.

   I have used the Vienna edition, but this, as already explained, is not
   a point of any importance. To facilitate the verification of passages
   quoted I have in very many instances quoted also the lines, either from
   top or bottom.

   The abbreviation Tos. (Tosephta, additamentum) before the name of a
   Tractate refers to the additions made to the Mishnah after its
   redaction. This redaction dates from the third century of our era. The
   Tos. extends only over 52 of the Mishnic Tractates. They are inserted
   in the Talmud at the end of each Tractate, and are printed on the
   double pages in double columns (col. a and b on p. a, col. e and d on
   p. b). They are generally quoted by Pereq and Mishnah: thus, Tos. Gitt.
   i. 1, or (more rarely) by page and column, Tos. Gitt. p. 150 a. The ed.
   Zuckermandel is, when quoted, specially indicated.

   Besides, the Tractate Aboth de Rabbi Nathan (Ab. de. R. Math.), and the
   smaller Tractates, Sopherim (Sopher), Semachoth (Semach.), Kallah
   (Kall. or Chall), [2] Derekh Erets (Der Er.),  Derekh Erets Zuta
   (commonly Der Er. S.), and Pereq Shalom (Per. Shal.) are inserted at
   the close of vol. ix. of the Talmud. They are printed in four columns
   (on double pages), and quoted by Pereq and Mishnah.

   The so-called Septem Libri Talmudici parvi Hierosolymitani are
   published separately (ed. Raphael Kirchheim, Fref 1851). They are the
   Massecheth Sepher Torah (Mass. Seph. Tor.), Mass. Mezuzah (Mass.
   Mesus.), Mass. Tephillin (Mass. Tephill.), Mass. Tsitsith (Mass. Ziz.),
   Mass. Abhadim (Mass. Abad.), Mass. Kuthim (Mass. Cuth.), and Mass.
   Gerim (Mass. Ger.). They are printed and quoted according to double
   pages (a and b).

   To these must be added the so-called Chesronoth haShas, a collection of
   passages expurgated in the ordinary editions from the various Tractates
   of the Talmud. Here we must close, what might else assume undue
   proportions, by an alphabeticallist of the abbreviations, although only
   of the principal books referred to: -

   Ab. Zar. [3]                      The Talmudic Tractate Abhodah Zorah,
   on Idolatry.

   Ab.                               The Talmudic Tractate Pirquey
   Abohoth, Savings of the Fathers.

   Ab. de R Nath. The Tractate Abhoth de Rabbi Nathan at the close of vol.
   ix. in the Bab. Talm.

   Arakh.                         The Talmudic Tractate Arakhin, on the
   redemption of persons or things consecrated to the Sanctuary.

   Bab. K.                        The Talmudic Tractate Babha Qamma (First
   Gate'), the first,

   Bab. Mets. [or Mez.]    Talmudic Tractate Babha Metsia (Middle Gate'),
   the second,

   Bab. B.                         The Talmudic Tractate Babha Bathra
   (Last Gate'), the third of the great Tractates on Common Law.

   Bechor.                        The Talmudic Tractate Bekhoroth, on the
   consecration to the Sanctuary of the First-born.

   Bemid R.                      The Midrash (or Commentary) Bemidbar
   Rabba, on Numbers.

   Ber.                              The Talmudic Tractate Berakhoth, on
   Prayers and Benedictions.

   Ber. R.                         The Midrash (or Commentary) Bereshith
   Rabba, on Genesis.

   Bets. [or Bez.] The Talmudic Tractate Betsah, laws about an egg laid on
   Sabbath and Fast-days, and on similar points connected with the
   sanctifying of such seasons.

   Biccur.                         The Talmudic Tractate Bikkurim, on
   First-fruits.

   Chag.                          The Talmudic Tractate Chagigah, on the
   festive offerings at the three Great Feasts.

   Chall.                          The Talmudic Tractate Challah, on the
   first of the dough (Numb. xv. 17).

   Chull.                          The Talmudic Tractate Chullin, the
   rubric as to the mode of killing meat and kindred subjects.

   Debar R.                      The Midrash Debharim Rabba, on
   Deuteronomy.

   Dem.                            The Talmudic Tractate Demai, regarding
   Produce, the tithing of which is not certain.

   Ech. R.                         The Midrash Ekhah Rabbathi, on
   Lamentations (also quoted as Mid. on Lament).

   Eduy.                           The Talmudic Tractate Eduyoth
   (Testimonies), the legal determinations enacted or confirmed on a
   certain occasion, decisive in Jewish History.

   Erub.                           The Talmudic Tractate Erubhin, on the
   conjunction of Sabbath boundaries. (See Appendix XVII.)

   Midr. Esth.                  The Midrash on Esther.

   Gitt.                             The Talmudic Tractate Gittin, on
   Divorce.

   Horay.                         The Taldmudic Tractate Horayoth
   Decisions' on certain unintentional transgressions.

   Jad. [or Yad.]               The Taldmudic Tractate Yadayim, on the
   Washing of Hands.

   Jebam. [or Yebam.]     The Taldmudic Tractate Yebhamoth, on the
   Levirate.

   Jom. [mostly Yom.]      The Taldmudic Tractate Yoma, on the Day of
   Atonement.

   Kel.                              The Taldmudic Tractate Kelim, on the
   purification of furniture and vessels.

   Kerith.                         The Taldmudic Tractate Kerithuth, on
   the punishment of cutting off.'

   Kethub.                       The Taldmudic Tractate Kethubhoth, on
   marriage-contracts.

   Kidd.                           The Taldmudic Tractate Qiddushin, on
   Betrothal.

   Kil.                              The Taldmudic Tractate Kilayim, on
   the unlawful commixtures (Lev. xix. 19; Deut. xxii. 9-11).

   Kinn.                           The Taldmudic Tractate Qinnim, on the
   offering of doves (Lev. v. 1-10; xii. 8).

   Midr. Kohel.                The Midrash on Qoheleth or Eccles.

   Maas.                          The Talmudic Tractate Maaseroth, on
   Levitical Tithes.

   Maas Sh.                     The Talmudic Tractate Maaser Sheni, on
   second Tithes (Deut. xiv. 22, &c.).

   Machsh.                       The Talmudic Tractate Makhshirin, on
   fluids that may render products defiled,' or that leave them undefiled
   (Lev. xi. 34, 38).

   Makk. [or Macc.]        The Talmudic Tractate Makkoth, on the
   punishment of Stripes.

   Mechil.                        The Talmudic Tractate Mekhilta, a
   Commentary on part of Exodus, dating at the latest from the first half
   of the second century.

   Megill.                         The Talmudic Tractate Megillah,
   referring to the reading of the (roll') Book of Esther and on the Feast
   of Esther.

   Meil.                            The Talmudic Tractate Meilah, on the
   defilement of things consecrated.

   Menach.                      The Talmudic Tractate Menachoth, on
   Meat-offerings.

   Midd.                           The Talmudic Tractate Middoth, on the
   Temple-measurements and arrangements.

   Mikv.                           The Talmudic Tractate Miqvaoth, on
   ablutions and immersions.

   Moed K.                      The Talmudic Tractate Moed Qatan, on
   Half-holidays

   Naz.                             The Talmudic Tractate Nazir, on the
   Nasirate.

   Ned.                             The Talmudic Tractate Nedarim, on
   Vowing.

   Neg.                             The Talmudic Tractate Negaim, on
   Leprosy.

   Nidd.                           The Talmudic Tractate Niddah, on female
   levitical impurity (menstrua).

   Ohol.                           The Talmudic Tractate Oholoth, on the
   defilement of tents and houses, specially by death.

   Orl.                              The Talmudic Tractate Orlah, on the
   ordinances connected with Lev. xix. 23.

   Par.                             The Talmudic Tractate Parah, on the
   Red Heifer and purification by its ashes.

   Peah                            The Talmudic Tractate Peah, on the
   corner to be left for the poor in harvesting.

   Pes.                             The Talmudic Tractate Pesachim, on the
   Paschal Feast.

   Pesiqta                        The Book Pesiqta, an exceedingly
   interesting series of Meditations or brief discussions and Lectures on
   certain portions of  the Lectionary for the principal Sabbaths and
   Feast Days.

   Pirqé de R. Eliez.         The Haggadic Pirqé de Rabbi Eliezer, in 54
   chapters, a discursive Tractate on the History of Israel from the
   creation to the time of Moses, with the insertion of three chapters
   (xlix.-li.) on the history of Haman and the future Messianic
   deliverance.

   Rosh haSh.                  The Talmudic Tractate Rosh haShanah, on the
   Feast of New Year

   Sab.                             The Talmudic Tractate Zabhim, on
   certain levitically defiling issues.

   Sanh.                           The Talmudic Tractate Sanhedrin, on the
   Sanhedrim and Criminal Jurisprudence.

   Sebach.                        The Talmudic Tractate Zebhachim, on
   Sacrifices.

   Shabb.                         The Talmudic Tractate Shabbath, on
   Sabbath-observance.

   Shebh.                         The Talmudic Tractate Shebhiith, on the
   Sabbatic Year.

   Shebu.                         The Talmudic Tractate Shebhuoth, on
   Oaths, &c.

   Sheqal.                        The Talmudic Tractate Sheqalim, on the
   Temple-Tribute, &c.

   Shem R.                       The Midrash Shemoth Rabba on Exodus.

   Shir haSh R.                The Midrash Shir haShirim Rabba, on the
   Song of Solomon.

   Siphra              The ancient Commentary on Leviticus, dating from
   the second century.

   Siphré              The still somewhat older Commentary on Numb. and
   Deuter.

   Sot.                              The Talmudic Tractate Sotah, on the
   Woman accused of Adultery.

   Sukk.                           The Talmudic Tractate Sukkah, on the
   Feast of Tabernacles.

   Taan.                           The Talmudic Tractate Taanith, on
   Fasting and Fast-Days.

   Tam.                            The Talmudic Tractate Tamid, on the
   daily Service and Sacrifice in the Temple.

   Teb. Yom.                    The Talmudic Tractate Tebhul Yom (bathed
   of the day'), on impurities, where there is immersion on the evening of
   the same day.

   Tem.                            The Talmudic Tractate Temurah, on
   substitution for things consecrated (Lev. xxvii. 10).

   Ter.                              The Talmudic Tractate Terumoth, on
   the priestly dues in produce.

   Tohar.                         The Talmudic Tractate Toharoth, on minor
   kinds of defilement.

   Tanch.                         The Midrashic Commentary Tanchuma (or
   Yelamdenu), on the Pentateuch.

   Ukz.                             The Talmudic Tractate Uqtsin, on the
   defilement of fruits through their envelopes, stalks, &c.

   Vayyik R.                     The Midrash Vayyikra Rabba, on Leviticus.

   Yalk.                            The great collectaneum: Yalkut
   Shimeoni, which is a catena on the whole Old Testament, containing also
   quotations from works lost to us. [4]

     __________________________________________________________________

   [2] It is to be noted that in the marginal and note-references the old
   mode of indicating a reference (as in the first ed. of this book) and
   the, perhaps, more correct mode of transliteration have been
   promiscuously employed. But the reader can have no difficulty in
   understanding the reference.

   [3] Mark the note on previous page.

   [4] It will, of course, be understood that we have only given the
   briefest, and, indeed, imperfect, indications of the contents of the
   various Talmudic Tractates. Besides giving the Laws connected with each
   of the subjects of which they treat, all kindred topics are taken up,
   nay, the discussion often passes to quite other than the subjects
   primarily treated of in a Tractate.
     __________________________________________________________________

                                     Book I


   INTRODUCTORY.


   THE PREPARATION FOR THE GOSPEL:

   THE JEWISH WORLD IN THE DAYS OF CHRIST


   {hebrew}

   All the prophets prophesied not but of the days of the Messiah.'-Sanh.
   99 a


   {hebrew}

   The world was not created but only for the Messiah.'-Sanh. 98 b
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER I.
THE JEWISH WORLD IN THE DAYS OF CHRIST - THE JEWISH DISPERSION IN THE EAST.


   Among the outward means by which the religion of Israel was preserved,
   one of the most important was the centralisation and localisation of
   its worship in Jerusalem. If to some the ordinances of the Old
   Testament may in this respect seem narrow and exclusive, it is at least
   doubtful, whether without such a provision Monothsiem itself could have
   continued as a creed or a worship. In view of the state of the ancient
   world, and of the tendencies of Israel during the earlier stages of
   their history, the strictest isolation was necessary in order to
   preserve the religion of the Old Testament from that mixture with
   foreign elements which would speedily have proved fatal to its
   existence. And if one source of that danger had ceased after the
   seventy years' exile in Babylonia, the dispersion of the greater part
   of the nation among those manners and civilisation would necessarily
   influence them, rendered the continuance of this separation of as great
   importance as before. In this respect, even traditionalism had its
   mission and use, as a hedge around the Law to render its infringement
   or modification impossible.

   Wherever a Roman, a Greek, or an Asiatic might wander, he could take
   his gods with him, or find rites kindred to his own. It was far
   otherwise with the Jew. He had only one Temple, that in Jerusalem; only
   one God, Him Who had once throned there between the Cherubim, and Who
   was still King over Zion. That Temple was the only place where a
   God-appointed, pure priesthood could offer acceptable sacrifices,
   whether for forgiveness of sin, or for fellowship with God. Here, in
   the impenetrable gloom of the innermost sanctuary, which the
   High-Priest alone might enter once a year for most solemn expiation,
   had stood the Ark, the leader of the people into the Land of Promise,
   and the footstool on which the Schechinah had rested. From that golden
   altar rose the cloud in incense, symbol of Israel's accepted prayers;
   that seven-branched candlestick shed its perpetual light, indicative of
   the brightness of God's Covenant Presence; on that table, as it were
   before the face of Jehovah, was laid, week by week, the Bread of the
   Face [5] ,' a constant sacrificial meal which Israel offered unto God,
   and wherewith God in turn fed His chosen priesthood. On the great
   blood-sprinkled altar of sacrifice smoked the daily and festive
   burnt-offerings, brought by all Israel, and for all Israel, wherever
   scattered; while the vast courts of the Temple were thronged not only
   by native Palestinians, but literally by Jews out of every nation under
   heaven.' Around this Temple gathered the sacred memories of the past;
   to it clung the yet brighter hopes of the future. The history of Israel
   and all their prospects were intertwined with their religion; so that
   it may be said that without their religion they had no history, and
   without their history no religion. Thus, history, patriotism, religion,
   and hope alike pointed to Jerusalem and the Temple as the centre of
   Israel's unity.

   Nor could the depressed state of the nation alter their views or shake
   their confidence. What mattered it, that the Idumæan, Herod, had
   usurped the throne of David, expect so far as his own guilt and their
   present subjection were concerned? Israel had passed through deeper
   waters, and stood triumphant on the other shore. For centuries
   seemingly hopeless bondsmen in Egypt, they had not only been delivered,
   but had raised the God-inspired morning-song of jubilee, as they looked
   back upon the sea cleft for them, and which had buried their oppressors
   in their might and pride. Again, for weary years had their captives
   hung Zion's harps by the rivers of that city and empire whose colossal
   grandeur, wherever they turned, must have carried to the scattered
   strangers the desolate feeling of utter hopelessness. And yet that
   empire had crumbled into dust, while Israel had again taken root and
   sprung up. And now little more than a century and a half had passed,
   since a danger greater even than any of these had threatened the faith
   and the very existence of Israel. In his daring madness, the Syrian
   king, Antiochus IV. (Epiphanes) had forbidden their religion, sought to
   destroy their sacred books, with unsparing ferocity forced on them
   conformity to heathen rites, desecrated the Temple by dedicating it to
   Zeus Olympios, what is translated by shewbread.' a constant sacrificial
   and even reared a heathen altar upon that of burnt-offering. [6] Worst
   of all, his wicked schemes had been aided by two apostate High-Priests,
   who had outvied each other in buying and then prostituting the sacred
   office of God's anointed. [7] Yet far away in the mountains of Ephraim
   [8] God had raised for them most unlooked-for and unlikely help. Only
   three years later, and, after a series of brilliant victories by
   undisciplined men over the flower of the Syrian army, Judas the
   Maccabee, truly God's Hammer [9] had purified the Temple, and restored
   its altar on the very same day [10] on which the abomination of
   desolation' [11] had been set up in its place. In all their history the
   darkest hour of their night had ever preceded the dawn of a morning
   brighter than any that had yet broken. It was thus that with one voice
   all their prophets had bidden them wait and hope. Their sayings had
   been more than fulfilled as regarded the past. Would they not equally
   become true in reference to that far more glorious future for Zion and
   for Israel, which was to be ushered in by the coming of the Messiah?

   Nor were such the feelings of the Palestinian Jews only. These indeed
   were now a minority. The majority of the nation constituted what was
   known as the dispersion; a term which, however, no longer expressed its
   original meaning of banishment by the judgment of God, [12] since
   absence from Palestine was now entirely voluntary. But all the more
   that it referred not to outward suffering, [13] did its continued use
   indicate a deep feeling of religious sorrow, of social isolation, and
   of political strangership [14] in the midst of a heathen world. For
   although, as Josephus reminded his countrymen, [15] there was no nation
   in the world which had not among them part of the Jewish people,' since
   it was widely dispersed over all the world among its inhabitants,' [16]
   yet they had nowhere found a real home. A century and a half before our
   era comes to us from Egypt [17] - where the Jews possessed exceptional
   privileges - professedly from the heathen, but really from the Jewish
   [18] Sibyl, this lament of Israel -

   Crowding with thy numbers every ocean and country -

   Yet an offense to all around thy presence and customs! [19]

   Sixty years later the Greek geographer and historian Strabo bears the
   like witness to their presence in every land, but in language that
   shows how true had been the complaint of the Sibyl. [20] The reasons
   for this state of feeling will by-and-by appear. Suffice it for the
   present that, all unconsciously, Philo tells its deepest ground, and
   that of Israel's loneliness in the heathen world, when speaking, like
   the others, of his countrymen as in all the cities of Europe, in the
   provinces of Asia and in the islands,' he describes them as, wherever
   sojourning, having but one metropolis - not Alexandria, Antioch, or
   Rome - but the Holy City with its Temple, dedicated to the Most High
   God.' [21] A nation, the vast majority of which was dispersed over the
   whole inhabited earth, had ceased to be a special, and become a
   world-nation. [22] Yet its heart beat in Jerasulem, and thence the
   life-blood passed to its most distant members. And this, indeed, if we
   rightly understand it, was the grand object of the Jewish dispersion'
   throughout the world.

   What has been said applies, perhaps, in a special manner, to the
   Western, rather than to the Eastern dispersion.' The connection of the
   latter with Palestine was so close as almost to seem one of continuity.
   In the account of the truly representative gathering in Jerusalem on
   that ever-memorable Feast of Weeks, [23]   the division of the
   dispersion' into two grand sections - the Eastern or Trans-Euphratic,
   and the Western or Hellenist - seems clearly marked. [24] In this
   arrangement the former would include the Parthians, Medes, Elamites,
   and dwellers in Mesopotamia,' Judæa standing, so to speak, in the
   middle, while the Bretes and Arabians' would typically represent the
   farthest outrunners respectively of the Western and the Eastern
   Diaspora. The former, as we know from the New Testament, commonly bore
   in Palestine the name of the dispersion of the Greeks,' [25] and of
   Hellenists' or Grecians.' [26] On the other hand, the Trans-Euphratic
   Jews, who inhabited Babylon and many of the other satrapies,' [27] were
   included with the Palestinians and the Syrians under the term Hebrews,'
   from the common language which they spoke.

   But the difference between the Grecians' and the Hebrews' was far
   deeper than merely of language, and extended to the whole direction of
   thought. There were mental influences at work in the Greek world from
   which, in the nature of things, it was impossible even for Jews to
   withdraw themselves, and which, indeed, were as necessary for the
   fulfillment of their mission as their isolation from heathenism, and
   their connection with Jerusalem. At the same time it was only natural
   that the Hellenists, placed as they were in the midst of such hostile
   elements, should intensely wish to be Jews, equal to their Eastern
   brethren. On the other hand, Pharisaism, in its pride of legal purity
   and of the possession of traditional lore, with all that it involved,
   made no secret of its contempt for the Hellenists, and openly declared
   the Grecian far inferior to the Babylonian dispersion.' [28] That such
   feelings, and the suspicions which they engendered, had struck deep
   into the popular mind, appears from the fact, that even in the
   Apostolic Church, and that in her earliest days, disputes could break
   out between the Hellenists and the Hebrews, arising from suspicion of
   unkind and unfair dealings grounded on these sectional prejudices. [29]

   Far other was the estimate in which the Babylonians were held by the
   leaders of Judaism. Indeed, according to one view of it, Babylonia, as
   well as Syria' as far north as Antioch, was regarded as forming part of
   the land of Israel. [30] Every other country was considered outside the
   land,' as Palestine was called, witht the exception of Babylonia, which
   was reckoned as part of it. [31] For Syria and Mesopotamia, eastwards
   to the banks of the Tigris, were supposed to have been in the territory
   which King David had conquered, and this made them ideally for ever
   like the land of Israel. But it was just between the Euphrates and the
   Tigris that the largest and wealthiest settlements of the Jews were, to
   such extent that a later writer actually designated them the land of
   Israel.' Here Nehardaa, on the Nahar Malka, or royal canal, which
   passed from the Euphrates to the Tigris, was the oldest Jewish
   settlement. It boasted of a Synagogue, said to have been built by King
   Jechoniah with stones that had been brought from the Temple. [32] In
   this fortified city the vast contributions intended for the Temple were
   deposited by the Eastern Jews, and thence conveyed to their destination
   under escort of thousands of armed men. Another of these Jewish
   treasure-cities was Nisibis, in northern Mesopotamia. Even the fact
   that wealth, which must have sorely tempted the cupidity of the
   heathen, could be safely stored in these cities and transported to
   Palestine, shows how large the Jewish population must have been, and
   how great their general influence.

   In general, it is of the greatest importance to remember in regard to
   this Eastern dispersion, that only a minority of the Jews, consisting
   in all of about 50,000, originally returned from Babylon, first under
   Zerubbabel and afterwards under Ezra. [33] Nor was their inferiority
   confined to numbers. The wealthiest and most influential of the Jews
   remained behind. According to Josephus, [34] with whom Philo
   substantially agrees, vast numbers, estimated at millions, inhabited
   the Trans-Euphratic provinces. To judge even by the number of those
   slain in popular risings (50,000 in Seleucia alone [35] ), these
   figures do not seem greatly exaggerated. A later tradition had it, that
   so dense was the Jewish population in the Persian Empire, that Cyrus
   forbade the further return of the exiles, lest the country should be
   depopulated. [36] So large and compact a body soon became a political
   power. Kindly treated under the Persian monarchy, they were, after the
   fall of that empire, [37] favoured by the successors of Alexander. When
   in turn the Macedono-Syrian rule gave place to the Parthian Empire,
   [38] the Jews formed, from their national opposition to Rome, an
   important element in the East. Such was their influence that, as late
   as the year 40 a.d., the Roman legate shrank from provoking their
   hostility. [39] At the same time it must not be thought that, even in
   these favoured regions, they were wholly without persecution. Here also
   history records more than one tale of bloody strife on the part of
   those among whom they dwelt. [40]

   To the Palestinians, their brethren of the East and of Syria - to which
   they had wandered under the fostering rule of the Macedono-Syrian
   monarchs (the Seleucidæ) - were indeed pre-eminently the Golah, or
   dispersion.' To them the Sanhedrin in Jerusalem intimated by
   fire-signals from mountain-top to mountain-top the commencement of each
   month for the regulation of the festive calendar, [41] even as they
   afterwards despatched messengers into Syria for the same purpose. [42]
   In some respects the Eastern dispersion was placed on the same footing;
   in others, on even a higher level than the mother country. Tithes and
   Terumoth, or first-fruits in a prepared condition, [43] were due from
   them, while the Bikkurim, or first-fruits in a fresh state, were to be
   brought from Syria to Jerusalem. Unlike the heathen countries, whose
   very dust defiled, the soil of Syria was declared clean, like that of
   Palestine itself. [44] So far as purity of descent was concerned, the
   Babylonians, indeed, considered themselves superior to their
   Palestinian brethren. They had it, that when Ezra took with him those
   who went to Palestine, he had left the land behind him as pure as fine
   flour. [45] To express it in their own fashion: In regard to the
   genealogical purity of their Jewish inhabitants, all other countries
   were, compared to Palestine, like dough mixed with leaven; but
   Palestine itself was such by the side of Babylonia. [46] It was even
   maintained, that the exact boundaries could be traced in a district,
   within which the Jewish population had preserved itself unmixed. Great
   merit was in this respect also ascribed to Ezra. In the usual mode of
   exaggeration, it was asserted, that, if all the genealogical studies
   and researches [47] had been put together, they would have amounted to
   many hundred camel-loads. There was for it, however, at least this
   foundation in truth, that great care and labour were bestowed on
   preserving full and accurate records so as to establish purity of
   descent. What importance attached to it, we know from the action on
   Ezra [48] in that respect, and from the stress which Josephus lays on
   this point. [49] Official records of descent as regarded the priesthood
   were kept in the Temple. Besides, the Jewish authorities seem to have
   possessed a general official register, which Herod afterwards ordered
   to be burnt, from reasons which it is not difficult to infer. But from
   that day, laments a Rabbi, the glory of the Jews decreased! [50]

   Nor was it merely purity of descent of which the Eastern dispersion
   could boast. In truth, Palestine owed everything to Ezra, the
   Babylonian, [51] a man so distinguished that, according to tradition,
   the Law would have been given by him, if Moses had not previously
   obtained that honor. Putting aside the various traditional ordinances
   which the Talmud ascribes to him, [52] we know from the Scriptures what
   his activity for good had been. Altered circumstances had brought many
   changes to the new Jewish State. Even the language, spoken and written,
   was other than formerly. Instead of the characters anciently employed,
   the exiles brought with them, on their return, those now common, the
   so-called square Hebrew letters, which gradually came into general use.
   [53] [54] The language spoken by the Jews was no longer Hebrew, but
   Aramæan, both in Palestine and in Babylonia; [55] in the former the
   Western, in the latter the Eastern dialect. In fact, the common people
   were ignorant of pure Hebrew, which henceforth became the language of
   students and of the Synagogue. Even there a Methurgeman, or
   interpreter, had to be employed to translate into the vernacular the
   portions of Scripture read in the public services, [56] and the
   addresses delivered by the Rabbis. This was the origin of the so-called
   Targumim, or paraphrases of Scripture. In earliest times, indeed, it
   was forbidden to the Methurgeman to read his translation or to write
   down a Targum, lest the paraphrase should be regarded as of equal
   authority with the original. It was said that, when Jonathan brought
   out his Targum on the Prophets, a voice from heaven was heard to utter:
   Who is this that has revealed My secrets to men?' [57] Still, such
   Targumim seem to have existed from a very early period, and, amid the
   varying and often incorrect renderings, their necessity must have made
   itself increasingly felt. Accordingly, their use was authoritatively
   sanctioned before the end of the second century after Christ. This is
   the origin of our two oldest extant Targumim: that of Onkelos (as it is
   called), on the Pentateuch; and that on the Prophets, attributed to
   Jonathan the son of Uzziel. These names do not, indeed, accurately
   represent the authorship of the oldest Targumim, which may more
   correctly be regarded as later and authoritative recensions of what, in
   some form, had existed before. But although these works had their
   origin in Palestine, it is noteworthy that, in the form in which at
   present we possess them, they are the outcome of the schools of
   Babylon.

   But Palestine owed, if possible, a still greater debt to Babylonia. The
   new circumstances in which the Jews were placed on their return seemed
   to render necessary an adaptation of the Mosaic Law, if not new
   legislation. Besides, piety and zeal now attached themselves to the
   outward observance and study of the letter of the Law. This is the
   origin of the Mishnah, or Second Law, which was intended to explain and
   supplement the first. This constituted the only Jewish dogmatics, in
   the real sense, in the study of which the sage, Rabbi, scholar, scribe,
   and Darshan, [58] were engaged. The result of it was the Midrash, or
   investigation, a term which afterwards was popularly applied to
   commentaries on the Scriptures and preaching. From the outset, Jewish
   theology divided into two branches: the Halakhah and the Haggadah. The
   former (from halakh, to go) was, so to speak, the Rule of the Spiritual
   Road, and, when fixed, had even greater authority than the Scriptures
   of the Old Testament, since it explained and applied them. On the other
   hand, the Haggadah [59] (from nagad, to tell) was only the personal
   saying of the teacher, more or less valuable according to his learning
   and popularity, or the authorities which he could quote in his support.
   Unlike the Halakhah, the Haggadah had no absolute authority, either as
   to doctrine practice, or exegesis. But all the greater would be its
   popular influence, [60] and all the more dangerous the doctrinal
   license which it allowed. In fact, strange as it may sound, almost all
   the doctrinal teaching of the Synagogue is to be derived from the
   Haggadah - and this also is characteristic of Jewish traditionalism.
   But, alike in Halakhah and Haggadah, Palestine was under the deepest
   obligation to Babylonia. For the father of Halakhic study was Hillel,
   the Babylonian, and among the popular Haggadists there is not a name
   better known than that of Eleazar the Mede, who flourished in the first
   century of our era.

   After this, it seems almost idle to inquire whether, during the first
   period after the return of the exiles from Babylon, there were regular
   theological academies in Babylon. Although it is, of course, impossible
   to furnish historical proof, we can scarely doubt that a community so
   large and so intensely Hebrew would not have been indifferent to that
   study, which constituted the main thought and engagement of their
   brethren in Palestine. We can understand that, since the great
   Sanhedrin in Palestine exercised supreme spiritual authority, and in
   that capacity ultimately settled all religious questions - at least for
   a time - the study and discussion of these subjects should also have
   been chiefly carried on in the schools of Palestine; and that even the
   great Hillel himself, when still a poor and unknown student, should
   have wandered thither to acquire the learning and authority, which at
   that period he could not have found in his own country. But even this
   circumstance implies, that such studies were at least carried on and
   encouraged in Babylonia. How rapidly soon afterwards the authority of
   the Babylonian schools increased, till they not only overshadowed those
   of Palestine, but finally inherited their prerogatives, is well known.
   However, therefore, the Palestinians in their pride or jealousy might
   sneer, [61] that the Babylonians were stupid, proud, and poor (they ate
   bread upon bread'), [62] even they had to acknowledge that, when the
   Law had fallen into oblivion, it was restored by Ezra of Babylon; when
   it was a second time forgotten, Hillel the Babylonian came and
   recovered it; and when yet a third time it fell into oblivion, Rabbi
   Chija came from Babylon and gave it back once more.' [63]

   Such then was that Hebrew dispersion which, from the first, constituted
   really the chief part and the strength of the Jewish nation, and with
   which its religious future was also to lie. For it is one of those
   strangely significant, almost symbolical, facts in history, that after
   the destruction of Jerusalem the spiritual supremacy of Palestine
   passed to Babylonia, and that Rabbinical Judaism, under the stress of
   political adversity, voluntarily transferred itself to the seats of
   Israel's ancient dispersion, as if to ratify by its own act what the
   judgment of God had formerly executed. But long before that time the
   Babylonian dispersion' had already stretched out its hands in every
   direction. Northwards, it had spread through Armenia, the Caucasus, and
   to the shores of the Black Sea, and through Media to those of the
   Caspian. Southwards, it had extended to the Persian Gulf and through
   the vast extent of Arabia, although Arabia Felix and the land of the
   Homerites may have received their first Jewish colonies from the
   opposite shores of Ethiopia. Eastwards it had passed as far as India.
   [64] Everywhere we have distinct notices of these wanderers, and
   everywhere they appear as in closest connection with the Rabbinical
   hierarchy of Palestine. Thus the Mishnah, in an extremely curious
   section, [65] tells us how on Sabbaths the Jewesses of Arabia might
   wear their long veils, and those of India the kerchief round the head,
   customary in those countries, without incurring the guilt of
   desecrating the holy day by needlessly carrying what, in the eyes of
   the law, would be a burden; [66] while in the rubric for the Day of
   Atonement we have it noted that the dress which the High-Priest wore
   between the evenings' of the great fast - that is, as afternoon
   darkened into evening - was of most costly Indian' stuff. [67]

   That among such a vast community there should have been poverty, and
   that at one time, as the Palestinians sneered, learning may have been
   left to pine in want, we can readily believe. For, as one of the Rabbis
   had it in explanation of Deut. xxx. 13: Wisdom is not "beyond the sea"
   - that is, it will not be found among traders or merchants,' [68] whose
   mind must be engrossed by gain. And it was trade and commerce which
   procured to the Babylonians their wealth and influence, although
   agriculture was not neglected. Their caravans - of whose camel drivers,
   by the way, no very flattering account is given [69] - carried the rich
   carpets and woven stuffs of the East, as well as its precious spices,
   to the West: generally through Palestine to the Phoenician harbours,
   where a fleet of merchantmen belonging to Jewish bankers and shippers
   lay ready to convey them to every quarter of the world. These merchant
   princes were keenly alive to all that passed, not only in the
   financial, but in the political world. We know that they were in
   possession of State secrets, and entrusted with the intricacies of
   diplomacy. Yet, whatever its condition, this Eastern Jewish community
   was intensely Hebrew. Only eight days' journey - though, according to
   Philo's western ideas of it, by a difficult road [70] - separated them
   from Palestine; and every pulsation there vibrated in Babylonia. It was
   in the most outlying part of that colony, in the wide plains of Arabia,
   that Saul of Tarsus spent those three years of silent thought and
   unknown labour, which preceded his re-appearance in Jerusalem, when
   from the burning longing to labour among his brethren, kindled by long
   residence among these Hebrews of the Hebrews, he was directed to that
   strange work which was his life's mission. [71] And it was among the
   same community that Peter wrote and laboured, [72] amidst
   discouragements of which we can form some conception from the sad boast
   of Nehardaa, that up to the end of the third century it had not
   numbered among its members any convert to Christianity. [73] In what
   has been said, no notice has been taken of those wanderers of the ten
   tribes, whose trackless footsteps seem as mysterious as their
   after-fate. The Talmudists name four countries as their seats. But,
   even if we were to attach historic credence to their vague statements,
   at least two of these localities cannot with any certainty be
   identified. [74] Only thus far all agree as to point us northwards,
   through India, Armenia, the Kurdish mountains, and the Caucasus. And
   with this tallies a curious reference in what is known as IV. Esdras,
   which locates them in a land called Arzareth, a term which has, with
   some probability, been identified with the land of Ararat. [75]
   Josephus [76] describes them as an innumerable multitude, and vaguely
   locates them beyond the Euphrates. The Mishnah is silent as to their
   seats, but discusses their future restoration; Rabbi Akiba denying and
   Rabbi Eliezer anticipating it. [77] [78] Another Jewish tradition [79]
   locates them by the fabled river Sabbatyon, which was supposed to cease
   its flow on the weekly Sabbath. This, of course, is an implied
   admission of ignorance of their seats. Similarly, the Talmud [80]
   speaks of three localities whither they had been banished: the district
   around the river Sabbatyon; Daphne, near Antioch; while the third was
   overshadowed and hidden by a cloud.

   Later Jewish notices connect the final discovery and the return of the
   lost tribes' with their conversion under that second Messiah who, in
   contradistinction to the Son of David' is styled the Son of Joseph,' to
   whom Jewish tradition ascribes what it cannot reconcile with the royal
   dignity of the Son of David,' and which, if applied to Him, would
   almost inevitably lead up to the most wide concessions in the Christian
   argument. [81] As regards the ten tribes there is this truth underlying
   the strange hypothesis, that, as their persistent apostasy from the God
   of Israel and His worship had cut them off from his people, so the
   fulfilment of the Divine promises to them in the latter days would
   imply, as it were, a second birth to make them once more Israel. Beyond
   this we are travelling chiefly into the region of conjecture. Modern
   investigations have pointed to the Nestorians, [82] and latterly with
   almost convincing evidence (so far as such is possible) to the Afghans,
   as descended from the lost tribes. [83] Such mixture with, and lapse
   into, Gentile nationalities seems to have been before the minds of
   those Rabbis who ordered that, if at present a non-Jew weds a Jewess,
   such a union was to be respected, since the stranger might be a
   descendant of the ten tribes. [84] Besides, there is reason to believe
   that part of them, at least, had coalesced with their brethren of the
   later exile; [85] while we know that individuals who had settled in
   Palestine and, presumably, elsewhere, were able to trace descent from
   them. [86] Still the great mass of the ten tribes was in the days of
   Christ, as in our own, lost to the Hebrew nation.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [5] Such is the literal meaning of what is translated by shewbread.'

   [6] 1 Macc. i. 54, 59; Jos. Ant. xii. 5. 4.

   [7] After the deposition of Onias III. through the bribery of his own
   brother Jason, the latter and Menelaus outvied each other in bribery
   for, and prostitution of, the holy office.

   [8] Modin, the birthplace of the Maccabees, has been identified with
   the modern El-Medyeh, about sixteen miles northwest of Jerusalem, in
   the ancient territory of Ephraim. Comp. Conder's Handbook of the Bible,
   p. 291; and for a full reference to the whole literature of the
   subject, see Schürer (Neutest. Zeitgesch. p. 78, note 1).

   [9] On the meaning of the name Maccabee, comp. Grimm's Kurzgef. Exeget.
   Handb. z. d. Apokr. Lief. iii., pp. ix. x. We adopt the derivation from
   Maqqabha, a hammer, like Charles Martel.

   [10] 1 Macc. iv. 52-54: Megill. Taan. 23.

   [11] 1 Macc. l. 54.

   [12] Alike the verb {hebrew} in Hebrew, and diaspero in Greek, with
   their derivatives, are used in the Old Testament, and in the rendering
   of the LXX., with reference to punitive banishment. See, for example,
   Judg. xviii. 30; 1 Sam. iv. 21; and in the LXX. Deut. xxx. 4; Ps.
   cxlvii. 2; Is. xlix. 6, and other passages.

   [13] There is some truth, although greatly exaggerated, in the bitter
   remarks of Hausrath (Neutest. Zeitgesch. ii. p. 93), as to the
   sensitiveness of the Jews in the diaspor, and the loud outcry of all
   its members at any interference with them, however trivial. But events
   unfortunately too often proved how real and near was their danger, and
   how necessary the caution Obsta principiis.'

   [14] St. Peter seems to have used it in that sense, 1 Pet. i. 1.

   [15] Jew. W ii. 16. 4.

   [16] vii. 3.3.

   [17] Comp. the remarks of Schneckenburger (Vorles ü. Neutest. Zeitg. p.
   95).

   [18] Comp. Friedlieb, D. Sibyll. Weissag. xxii. 39.

   [19] Orac Sibyll. iii. 271,272, apud Friedlieb, p. 62.

   [20] Strabo apud Jos. Ant. xiv. 7.2: It is not easy to find a place in
   the world that has not admitted this race, and is not mastered by it.'

   [21] Philo in Flaccum (ed. Francf.), p. 971.

   [22] Comp. Jos. Ant. xii. 3; xiii. 10. 4; 13. 1; xiv. 6. 2; 8. 1; 10.
   8; Sueton. Cæs. 85.

   [23] Acts ii. 9-11

   [24] Grimm (Clavis N.T. p. 113) quotes two passages from Philo, in one
   of which he contradistinguishes us,' the Hellenist Jews, from the
   Hebrews,' and speaks of the Greek as our language.'

   [25] St. John vii. 35.

   [26] Acts vi. 1; ix. 29; xi. 20.

   [27] Philo ad Cajum, p. 1023; Jos. Ant. xv. 3.1.

   [28] Similarly we have (in Men. 110a) this curious explanation of Is.
   xliii. 6: My sons from afar' - these are the exiles in Babylon, whose
   minds were settled, like men, and my daughters from the ends of the
   earth' - these are the exiles in other lands, whose minds were not
   settled, like women.

   [29] Acts vi. 1.

   [30] Ber. R. 17.

   [31] Erub. 21 a Gritt. 6 a.

   [32] Comp. Fürst, Kult. u. Literaturgesch d. Jud. in Asien, vol. i. p.
   8.

   [33] 537 b.c., and 459-'8 b.c.

   [34] Ant. xi. 5. 2; xv. 2. 2; xviii. 9.

   [35] Jos. Ant. xviii. 9. 9.

   [36] Midrash on Cant. v. 5, ed. Warsh. p. 26 a.

   [37] 330 b.c.

   [38] 63 b.c.

   [39] Philo ad Caj.

   [40] The following are the chief passages in Josephus relating to that
   part of Jewish history: Ant. xi. 5. 2; xiv. 13. 5; xv. 2. 7; 3. 1;
   xvii. 2. 1-3; xviii. 9. 1, &c.; xx. 4. Jew. W. i. 13. 3.

   [41] Rosh. haSh. ii. 4; comp. the Jer. Gemara on it, and in the Bab.
   Talmud 23 b.

   [42] Rosh. haSh. i. 4.

   [43] Shev. vi. passim; Gitt. 8 a.

   [44] Ohol. xxiii. 7.

   [45] Kidd. 69 b.

   [46] Cheth. 111 a.

   [47] As comments upon the genealogies from Azel' in 1 Chr. viii. 37 to
   Azel' in ix. 44. Pes. 62 b.

   [48] Chs. ix. x.

   [49] Life i.; Ag Apion i. 7.

   [50] Pes. 62 b; Sachs, Beitr. vol. ii. p. 157.

   [51] According to tradition he returned to Babylon, and died there.
   Josephus says that he died in Jerusalem (Anti. xi. 5. 5).

   [52] Herzfeld has given a very clear historical arrangement of the
   order in which, and the persons by whom, the various legal
   determinations were supposed to have been given. See Gesch. d. V. Isr.
   vol. iii. pp. 240 &c.

   [53] Sanh. 21 b.

   [54] Although thus introduced under Ezra, the ancient Hebrew
   characters, which resemble the Samaritan, only very gradually gave way.
   They are found on monuments and coins.

   [55] Herzfeld (u. s. vol. iii. p. 46) happily designates the
   Palestinian as the Hebræo-Aramaic, from its Hebraistic tinge. The
   Hebrew, as well as the Aramæan, belongs to the Semitic group of
   languages, which has thus been arranged: 1. North Semitic:
   Punico-Phoenician, Hebrew, and Aramaic (Western and Eastern dialects).
   2. South Semitic: Arabic, Himyaritic, and Ethiopian. 3. East Semitic:
   The Assyro-Baylonian cuneiform. When we speak of the dialect used in
   Palestine, we do not, of course, forget the great influence of Syria,
   exerted long before and after the Exile. Of these three branches the
   Aramaic is the most closely connected with the Hebrew. Hebrew occupies
   an intermediate position between the Aramaic and the Arabic, and may be
   said to be the oldest, certainly from a literary point of view.
   Together with the introduction of the new dialect into Palestine, we
   mark that of the new, or square, characters of writing. The Mishnah and
   all the kindred literature up to the fourth century are in Hebrew, or
   rather in a modern development and adaptation of that language; the
   Talmud is in Aramæan. Comp. on this subject: DeWette-Schrader, Lehrb.
   d. hist. kr. Eink. (8 ed.) pp. 71-88; Herzog's Real-Encykl. vol. i.
   466, 468; v. 614 &c., 710; Zunz, Gottesd. Vortr. d. Jud. pp. 7-9;
   Herzfeld, u.s. pp. 44 &c., 58&c.

   [56] Could St. Paul have had this in mind when, in referring to the
   miraculous gift of speaking in other languages, he directs that one
   shall always interpret (1 Cor. xiv. 27)? At any rate, the word targum
   in Ezra iv. 7 is rendered in the LXX. by rmeneo. The following from the
   Talmud (Ber. 8 a and b) affords a curious illustration of 1 Cor. xiv.
   27: Let a man always finish his Parashah (the daily lesson from the
   Law) with the congregation (at the same time) - twice the text, and
   once Targum.'

   [57] Megill. 3 b.

   [58] From darash, to search out, literally, to tread out. The preacher
   was afterwards called the Darshan.

   [59] The Halakhah might be described as the apocryphal Pentateuch, the
   Haggadah as the apocryphal Prophets

   [60] We may here remind ourselves of 1 Tim. v. 17. St. Paul, as always,
   writes with the familiar Jewish phrases ever recurring to his mind. The
   expression didaskala seems to be equivalent to Halakhic teaching. Comp.
   Grimm, Clavis N. T. pp. 98, 99.

   [61] In Moed Q. 25 a. sojourn in Babylon is mentioned as a reason why
   the Shekhinah could not rest upon a certain Rabbi.

   [62] Pes. 34 b; Men. 52 a; Sanh. 24 a; Bets. 16 a - apud Neubauer,
   Géog. du Talmud, p. 323. In Keth. 75 a, they are styled the silly
   Babylonians.' See also Jer. Pes. 32 a.

   [63] Sukk. 20 a. R. Chija, one of the teachers of the second century,
   is among the most celebrated Rabbinical authorities, around whose
   memory legend has thrown a special halo.

   [64] In this, as in so many respects, Dr. Neubauer has collated very
   interesting information, to which we refer. See his Géogr. du Talm. pp.
   369-399.

   [65] The whole section gives a most curious glimpse of the dress and
   ornaments worn by the Jews at that time. The reader interested in the
   subject will find special information in the three little volumes of
   Hartmann (Die Hebräerin am Putztische), in N. G. Schröder's some-what
   heavy work: De Vestitu Mulier. Hebr., and especially in that
   interesting tractate, Trachten d. Juden, by Dr. A. Brüll, of which,
   unfortunately, only one part has appeared.

   [66] Shabb. vi. 6.

   [67] Yoma iii. 7.

   [68] Er. 55 a.

   [69] Kidd. iv. 14.

   [70] Philo ad Cajum, ed. Frcf. p. 1023.

   [71] Gal. i. 17;

   [72] 1 Pet. v. 13.

   [73] Pes. 56 a, apud Neubauer, u. s., p. 351.

   [74] Comp. Neubauer, pp. 315, 372; Hamburger, Real-Encykl. p. 135.

   [75] Comp. Volkmar, Handb. d. Einl. in d. Apokr. ii^te Abth., pp. 193,
   194, notes. For the reasons there stated, I prefer this to the
   ingenious interpretation proposed by Dr. Schiller-Szinessy (Journ. of
   Philol. for 1870, pp. 113, 114), who regards it as a contraction of
   Erez achereth, another land,' referred to in Deut. xxix. 27 (28).

   [76] Ant. xi. 5.2.

   [77] Sanh. x. 3.

   [78] R. Eliezer seems to connect their return with the dawn of the new
   Messianic day.

   [79] Ber. R. 73.

   [80] Jer. Sanb 29 c.

   [81] This is not the place to discuss the later Jewish fiction of a
   second or suffering' Messiah, the son of Joseph,' whose special mission
   it would be to bring back the ten tribes, and to subject them to
   Messiah, the son of David,' but who would perish in the war against Gog
   and Magog.

   [82] Comp. the work of Dr. Asahel Grant on the Nestorians. His
   arguments have been well summarised and expanded in an interesting note
   in Mr. Nutt's Sketch of Samaritan History, pp. 2-4.

   [83] I would here call special attention to a most interesting paper on
   the subject (A New Afghan Question'), by Mr. H. W. Bellew, in the
   Journal of the United Service Institution of India,' for 1881, pp.
   49-97.

   [84] Yebam 16 b.

   [85] Kidd. 69 b.

   [86] So Anna from the tribe of Aser, St. Luke ii. 36. Lutterbeck
   (Neutest. Lehrbegr. pp. 102, 103) argues that the ten tribes had become
   wholly undistinguishable from the other two. But his arguments are not
   convincing, and his opinion was certainly not that of those who lived
   in the time of Christ, or who reflected their ideas.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER II.
THE JEWISH DISPERSION IN THE WEST - THE HELLENISTS - ORIGIN OF HELLENIST
LITERATURE IN THE GREEK TRANSLATION OF THE BIBLE - CHARACTER OF THE SEPTUAGINT.


   When we turn from the Jewish dispersion' in the East to that in the
   West, we seem to breathe quite a different atmosphere. Despite their
   intense nationalism, all unconsciously to themselves, their mental
   characteristics and tendencies were in the opposite direction from
   those of their brethren. With those of the East rested the future of
   Judaism; with them of the West, in a sense, that of the world. The one
   represented old Israel, stretching forth its hands to where the dawn of
   a new day was about to break. These Jews of the West are known by the
   term Hellenists - from llenzein, to conform to the language and manners
   of the Greeks. [87]

   Whatever their religious and social isolation, it was, in the nature of
   thing, impossible that the Jewish communities in the West should
   remains unaffected by Grecian culture and modes of thought; just as, on
   the other hand, the Greek world, despite popular hatred and the
   contempt of the higher classes, could not wholly withdraw itself from
   Jewish influences. Witness here the many converts to Judaism among the
   Gentiles; [88] witness also the evident preparedness of the lands of
   this dispersion' for the new doctrine which was to come from Judea.
   Many causes contributed to render the Jews of the West accessible to
   Greek influences. They had not a long local history to look back upon,
   nor did they form a compact body, like their brethren in the East. They
   were craftsmen, traders, merchants, settled for a time here or there -
   units might combine into communities, but could not form one people.
   Then their position was not favourable to the sway of traditionalism.
   Their occupations, the very reasons for their being in a strange land,'
   were purely secular. That lofty absorption of thought and life in the
   study of the Law, written and oral, which characterised the East, was
   to the, something in the dim distance, sacred, like the soil and the
   institutions of Palestine, but unattainable. In Palestine or Babylonia
   numberless influences from his earliest years, all that he saw and
   heard, the very force of circumstances, would tend to make an earnest
   Jew a disciple of the Rabbis; in the West it would lead him to
   hellenise.' It was, so to speak, in the air'; and he could no more shut
   his mind against Greek thought than he could withdraw his body from
   atmospheric influences. That restless, searching, subtle Greek
   intellect would penetrate everywhere, and flash its light into the
   innermost recesses of his home and Synagogue.

   To be sure, they were intensely Jewish, these communities of strangers.
   Like our scattered colonists in distant lands, they would cling with
   double affection to the customs of their home, and invest with the halo
   of tender memories the sacred traditions of their faith. The Grecian
   Jew might well look with contempt, not unmingled with pity, on the
   idolatrous rites practised around, from which long ago the pitiless
   irony of Isaiah had torn the veil of beauty, to show the hideousness
   and unreality beneath. The dissoluteness of public and private life,
   the frivolity and aimlessness of their pursuits, political aspirations,
   popular assemblies, amusements - in short, the utter decay of society,
   in all its phases, would lie open to his gaze. It is in terms of lofty
   scorn, not unmingled with indignation, which only occasionally gives
   way to the softer mood of warning, or even invitation, that Jewish
   Hellenistic literature, whether in the Apocrypha or in its Apocalyptic
   utterances, address heathenism.

   From that spectacle the Grecian Jew would turn with infinite
   satisfaction - not to say, pride - to his own community, to think of
   its spiritual enlightenment, and to pass in review its exclusive
   privileges. [89] It was with no uncertain steps that he would go past
   those splendid temples to his own humbler Synagogue, pleased to find
   himself there surrounded by those who shared his descent, his faith,
   his hopes; and gratified to see their number swelled by many who,
   heathens by birth, had learned the error of their ways, and now, so to
   speak, humbly stood as suppliant strangers of the gate,' to seek
   admission into his sanctuary. [90] How different were the rites which
   he practised, hallowed in their Divine origin, rational in themselves,
   and at the same time deeply significant, from the absurd superstitions
   around. Who could have compared with the voiceless, meaningless,
   blasphemous heathen worship, if it deserved the name, that of the
   Synagogue, with its pathetic hymns, its sublime liturgy, its Divine
   Scriptures, and those stated sermons' which instructed in virtue and
   piety,' of which not only Philo, [91] Agrippa, [92] and Josephus, [93]
   speak as a regular institution, but whose antiquity and general
   prevalence is attested in Jewish writings, [94] and nowhere more
   strongly than in the book of the Acts of the Apostles?

   And in these Synagogues, how would brotherly love' be called out,
   since, if one member suffered, all might soon be affected, and the
   danger which threatened one community would, unless averted, ere long
   overwhelm the rest. There was little need for the admonition not to
   forget the love of strangers.' [95] To entertain them was not merely a
   virtue; in the Hellenist dispersion it was a religious necessity. And
   by such means not a few whom they would regard as heavenly messengers'
   might be welcomed. From the Acts of the Apostles we knew with what
   eagerness they would receive, and with what readiness they would
   invite, the passing Rabbi or teacher, who came from the home of their
   faith, to speak, if there were in them a word of comforting exhortation
   for the people. [96] We can scarcely doubt, considering the state of
   things, that this often bore on the consolation of Israel.' But,
   indeed, all that came from Jerusalem, all that helped them to realise
   their living connection with it, or bound it more closely, was
   precious. Letters out of Judæa,' the tidings which some one might bring
   on his return from festive pilgrimage or business journey, especially
   about anything connected with that grand expectation - the star which
   was to rise on the Eastern sky - would soon spread, till the Jewish
   pedlar in his wanderings had carried the news to the most distant and
   isolated Jewish home, where he might find a Sabbath, welcome and
   Sabbath-rest.

   Such undoubtedly was the case. And yet, when the Jew stepped out of the
   narrow circle which he had drawn around him, he was confronted on every
   side by Grecianism. It was in the forum, in the market, in the counting
   house, in the street; in all that he saw, and in all to whom he spoke.
   It was refined; it was elegant; it was profound; it was supremely
   attractive. He might resist, but he could not push it aside. Even in
   resisting, he had already yielded to it. For, once open the door to the
   questions which it brought, if it were only to expel, or repel them, he
   must give up that principle of simple authority on which traditionalism
   as a system rested. Hellenic criticism could not so be silenced, nor
   its searching light be extinguished by the breath of a Rabbi. If he
   attempted this, the truth would not only be worsted before its enemies,
   but suffer detriment in his own eyes. He must meet argument with
   argument, and that not only for those who were without, but in order to
   be himself quite sure of what he believed. He must be able to hold it,
   not only in controversy with others, where pride might bid him stand
   fast, but in that much more serious contest within, where a man meets
   the old adversary alone in the secret arena of his own mind, and has to
   sustain that terrible hand-to-hand fight, in which he is uncheered by
   outward help. But why should he shrink from the contest, when he was
   sure that his was Divine truth, and that therefore victory must be on
   his side? As in our modern conflicts against the onesided inferences
   from physical investigations we are wont to say that the truths of
   nature cannot contradict those of revelation, both being of God, and as
   we are apt to regard as truths of nature what sometimes are only
   deductions from partially ascertained facts, and as truths of
   revelation what, after all, may be only our own inferences, sometimes
   from imperfectly apprehended premises, so the Hellenist would seek to
   conciliate the truths of Divine revelation with those others which, he
   thought, he recognized in Hellenism. But what were the truths of Divine
   revelation? Was it only the substance of Scripture, or also its form,
   the truth itself which was conveyed, or the manner in which it was
   presented to the Jews; or, if both, then did the two stand on exactly
   the same footing? On the answer to these questions would depend how
   little or how much he would hellenise.'

   One thing at any rate was quite certain. The Old Testament, leastwise,
   the Law of Moses, was directly and wholly from God; and if so, then its
   form also - its letter - must be authentic and authoritative. Thus much
   on the surface, and for all. But the student must search deeper into
   it, his senses, as it were, quickened by Greek criticism; he must
   meditate' and penetrate into the Divine mysteries. The Palestinian also
   searched into them, and the result was the Midrash. But, whichever of
   his methods he had applied - the Peshat, or simple criticism of the
   words, the Derush, or search into the possible applications of the
   text, what might be trodden out' of it; or the Sod, the hidden,
   mystical, supranatural bearing of the words - it was still only the
   letter of the text that had been studied. There was, indeed, yet
   another understanding of the Scriptures, to which St. Paul directed his
   disciples: the spiritual bearing of its spiritual truths. But that
   needed another qualification, and tended in another direction from
   those of which the Jewish student knew. On the other hand, there was
   the intellectual view of the Scriptures - their philosophical
   understanding, the application to them of the results of Grecian
   thought and criticism. It was this which was peculiarly Hellenistic.
   Apply that method, and the deeper the explorer proceeded in his search,
   the more would he feel himself alone, far from the outside crowd; but
   the brighter also would that light of criticism, which he carried,
   shine in the growing darkness, or, as he held it up, would the precious
   ore, which he laid bare, glitter and sparkle with a thousand varying
   hues of brilliancy. What was Jewish, Palestinian, individual, concrete
   in the Scriptures, was only the outside - true in itself, but not the
   truth. There were depths beneath. Strip these stories of their
   nationalism; idealise the individual of the persons introduced, and you
   came upon abstract ideas and realities, true to all time and to all
   nations. But this deep symbolism was Pythagorean; this pre-existence of
   ideas which were the types of all outward actuality, was Platonism!
   Broken rays in them, but the focus of truth in the Scriptures. Yet
   these were rays, and could only have come from the Sun. All truth was
   of God; hence theirs must have been of that origin. Then were the sages
   of the heathen also in a sense God-taught - and God-teaching, or
   inspiration, was rather a question of degree than of kind!

   One step only remained; and that, as we imagine, if not the easiest,
   yet, as we reflect upon it, that which in practice would be most
   readily taken. It was simply to advance towards Grecianism; frankly to
   recognise truth in the results of Greek thought. There is that within
   us, name it mental consciousness, or as you will, which, all unbidden,
   rises to answer to the voice of intellectual truth, come whence it may,
   just as conscience answers to the cause of moral truth or duty. But in
   this case there was more. There was the mighty spell which Greek
   philosophy exercised on all kindred minds, and the special adaptation
   of the Jewish intellect to such subtle, if not deep, thinking. And, in
   general, and more powerful than the rest, because penetrating
   everywhere, was the charm of Greek literature, with its brilliancy; of
   Greek civilisation and culture, with their polish and attractiveness;
   and of what, in one word, we may call the time-spirit,' that tyrannos,
   who rules all in their thinking, speaking, doing, whether they list or
   not.

   Why, his sway extended even to Palestine itself, and was felt in the
   innermost circle of the most exclusive Rabbinism. We are not here
   referring to the fact that the very language spoken in Palestine came
   to be very largely charged with Greek, and even Latin, words Hebraised,
   since this is easily accounted for by the new circumstances, and the
   necessities of intercourse with the dominant or resident foreigners.
   Nor is it requisite to point out how impossible it would have been, in
   presence of so many from the Greek and Roman world, and after the long
   and persistent struggle of their rulers to Grecianise Palestine, nay,
   even in view of so many magnificent heathen temples on the very soil of
   Palestine, to exclude all knowledge of, or contact with Grecianism. But
   not to be able to exclude was to have in sight the dazzle of that
   unknown, which as such, and in itself, must have had peculiar
   attractions to the Jewish mind. It needed stern principle to repress
   the curiosity thus awakened. When a young Rabbi, Ben Dama, asked his
   uncle whether he might not study Greek philosophy, since he had
   mastered the Law' in every aspect of it, the older Rabbi replied by a
   reference to Josh. i. 8: Go and search what is the hour which is
   neither of the day nor of the night, and in it thou mayest study Greek
   philosophy.' [97] Yet even the Jewish patriarch, Gamaliel II., who may
   have sat with Saul of Tarsus at the feet of his grandfather, was said
   to have busied himself with Greek, as he certainly held liberal views
   on many points connected with Grecianism. To be sure, tradition
   justified him on the ground that his position brought him into contact
   with the ruling powers, and, perhaps, to further vindicate him,
   ascribed similar pursuits to the elder Gamaliel, although groundlessly,
   to judge from the circumstance that he was so impressed even with the
   wrong of possessing a Targum on Job in Aramæan, that he had it buried
   deep in the ground.

   But all these are indications of a tendency existing. How wide it must
   have spread, appears from the fact that the ban had to be pronounced on
   all who studied Greek wisdom.' One of the greatest Rabbis, Elisha ben
   Abujah, seems to have been actually led to apostacy by such studies.
   True, he appears as the Acher' - the other' - in Talmudic writings,
   whom it was not proper even to name. But he was not yet an apostate
   from the Synagogue when those Greek songs' ever flowed from his lips;
   and it was in the very Beth-ha-Midrash, or theological academy, that a
   multitude of Siphrey Minim (heretical books) flew from his breast,
   where they had lain concealed. [98] It may be so, that the expression
   Siphrey Homeros' (Homeric writings), which occur not only in the Talmud
   [99] but even in the Mishnah [100] referred pre-eminently, if not
   exclusively, to the religious or semi-religious Jewish Hellenistic
   literature, outside even the Apocrypha. [101] But its occurrence
   proves, at any rate, that the Hellenists were credited with the study
   of Greek literature, and that through them, if not more directly, the
   Palestinians had become acquainted with it.

   This sketch will prepare us for a rapid survey of that Hellenistic
   literature which Judæa so much dreaded. Its importance, not only to the
   Hellenists but to the world at large, can scarcely be over-estimated.
   First and foremost, we have here the Greek translation of the Old
   Testament, venerable not only as the oldest, but as that which at the
   time of Jesus held the place of our Authorized Version,' and as such is
   so often, although freely, quoted, in the New Testament. Nor need we
   wonder that it should have been the people's Bible, not merely among
   the Hellenists, but in Galilee, and even in Judæa. It was not only, as
   already explained, that Hebrew was no longer the vulgar tongue' in
   Palestine, and that written Targumim were prohibited. But most, if not
   all - at least in towns - would understand the Greek version; it might
   be quoted in intercourse with Hellenist brethren or with the Gentiles;
   and, what was perhaps equally, if not more important, it was the most
   readily procurable. From the extreme labour and care bestowed on them,
   Hebrew manuscripts of the Bible were enormously dear, as we infer from
   a curious Talmudical notice, [102] where a common wollen wrap, which of
   course was very cheap, a copy of the Psalms, of Job, and torn pieces
   from Proverbs, are together valued at five maneh - say, about 19l.
   Although this notice dates from the third or fourth century, it is not
   likely that the cost of Hebrew Biblical MSS. was much lower at the time
   of Jesus. This would, of course, put their possession well nigh out of
   common reach. On the other hand, we are able to form an idea of the
   cheapness of Greek manuscripts from what we know of the price of books
   in Rome at the beginning of our era. Hundreds of slaves were there
   engaged copying what one dictated. The result was not only the
   publication of as large editions as in our days, but their production
   at only about double the cost of what are now known as cheap' or
   people's editions.' Probably it would be safe to compute, that as much
   matter as would cover sixteen pages of small print might, in such
   cases, be sold at the rate of about sixpence, and in that ratio. [103]
   Accordingly, manuscripts in Greek or Latin, although often incorrect,
   must have been easily attainable, and this would have considerable
   influence on making the Greek version of the Old Testament the people's
   Bible.' [104]

   The Greek version, like the Targum of the Palestinians, originated, no
   doubt, in the first place, in a felt national want on the part of the
   Hellenists, who as a body were ignorant of Hebrew. Hence we find
   notices of very early Greek versions of at least parts of the
   Pentateuch. [105] But this, of course, could not suffice. On the other
   hand, there existed, as we may suppose, a natural curiosity on the part
   of students, especially in Alexandria, which had so large a Jewish
   population, to know the sacred books on which the religion and history
   of Israel were founded. Even more than this, we must take into account
   the literary tastes of the first three Ptolemies (successors in Egypt
   of Alexander the Great), and the exceptional favour which the Jews for
   a time enjoyed. Ptolemy I. (Lagi) was a great patron of learning. He
   projected the Museum in Alexandria, which was a home for literature and
   study, and founded the great library. In these undertakings Demetrius
   Phalereus was his chief adviser. The tastes of the first Ptolemy were
   inherited by his son, Ptolemy II. (Philadelphus), who had for two years
   been co-regent. [106] In fact, ultimately that monarch became literally
   book-mad, and the sums spent on rare MSS., which too often proved
   spurious, almost pass belief. The same may be said of the third of
   these monarchs, Ptolemy III. (Euergetes). It would have been strange,
   indeed, if these monarchs had not sought to enrich their library with
   an authentic rendering of the Jewish sacred books, or not encouraged
   such a translation.

   These circumstances will account for the different elements which we
   can trace in the Greek version of the Old Testament, and explain the
   historical, or rather legendary, notices which we have of its
   composition. To begin with the latter. Josephus has preserved what, no
   doubt in its present form, is a spurious letter from one Aristeas to
   his brother Philocrates, [107] in which we are told how, by the advice
   of his librarian (?), Demetrius Phalereus, Ptolemy II. had sent by him
   (Aristeas) and another officer, a letter, with rich presents, to
   Eleazar, the High-Priest at Jerusalem; who in turn had selected
   seventy-two translators (six out of each tribe), and furnished them
   with a most valuable manuscript of the Old Testament. The letter then
   gives further details of their splendid reception at the Egyptian
   court, and of their sojourn in the island of Pharos, where they
   accomplished their work in seventy-two days, when they returned to
   Jerusalem laden with rich presents, their translation having received
   the formal approval of the Jewish Sanhedrin at Alexandria. From this
   account we may at least derive as historical these facts: that the
   Pentateuch - for to it only the testimony refers - was translated into
   Greek, at the suggestion of Demetrius Phalareus, in the reign and under
   the patronage - if not by direction - of Ptolemy II. (Philadelphus).
   [108] With this the Jewish accounts agree, which describe the
   translation of the Pentateuch under Ptolemy - the Jerusalem Talmud
   [109] in a simpler narrative, the Babylonian [110] with additions
   apparently derived from the Alexandrian legends; the former expressly
   noting thirteen, the latter marking fifteen, variations from the
   original text. [111]

   The Pentateuch once translated, whether by one, or more likely by
   several persons, [112] the other books of the Old Testament would
   naturally soon receive the same treatment. They were evidently rendered
   by a number of persons, who possessed very different qualifications for
   their work - the translation of the Book of Daniel having been so
   defective, that in its place another by Theodotion was afterwards
   substituted. The version, as a whole, bears the name of the LXX. - as
   some have supposed from the number of its translators according to
   Aristeas' account - only that in that case it should have been
   seventy-two; or from the approval of the Alexandrian Sannedrin [113] -
   although in that case it should have been seventy-one; or perhaps
   because, in the popular idea, the number of the Gentile nations, of
   which the Greek (Japheth) was regarded as typical, was seventy. We
   have, however, one fixed date by which to compute the completion of
   this translation. From the prologue to the Apocryphal Wisdom of Jesus
   the son of Sirach,' we learn that in his days the Canon of Scripture
   was closed; and that on his arrival, in his thirty-eighth year. [114]
   In Egypt, which was then under the rule of Euergetes, he found the
   so-called LXX. version completed, when he set himself to a similar
   translation of the Hebrew work of his grandfather. But in the 50th
   chapter of that work we have a description of the High-Priest Simon,
   which is evidently written by an eye-witness. We have therefore as one
   term the pontificate of Simon, during which the earlier Jesus lived;
   and as the other, the reign of Euergetes, in which the grandson was at
   Alexandria. Now, although there were two High-Priests who bore the name
   Simon, and two Egyptian kings with the surname Euergetes, yet on purely
   historical grounds, and apart from critical prejudices, we conclude
   that the Simon of Ecclus. L. was Simon I., the Just, one of the
   greatest names in Jewish traditional history; and similarly, that the
   Euergetes of the younger Jesus was the first of that name, Ptolemy
   III., who reigned from 247 to 221 b.c. [115] In his reign, therefore,
   we must regard the LXX. version as, at least substantially, completed.

   From this it would, of course, follow that the Canon of the Old
   Testament was then practically fixed in Palestine. [116] That Canon was
   accepted by the Alexandrian translators, although the more loose views
   of the Hellenists on inspiration,' and the absence of that close
   watchfulness exercised over the text in Palestine, led to additions and
   alterations, and ultimately even to the admission of the Apocrypha into
   the Greek Bible. Unlike the Hebrew arrangement of the tex into the Law,
   the Prophets, [117] and the (sacred) Writings, or Hagiographa, the LXX.
   arrange them into historical, prophetical, and poetic books, and count
   twenty-two, after the Hebrew alphabet, instead of twenty-four, as the
   Hebrews. But perhaps both these may have been later arrangements, since
   Philo evidently knew the Jewish order of the books. [118] What text the
   translators may have used we can only conjecture. It differs in almost
   innumerable instances from our own, though the more important
   deviations are comparatively few. [119] In the great majority of the
   lesser variations our Hebrew must be regarded as the correct text.
   [120]

   Putting aside clerical mistakes and misreadings, and making allowance
   for errors of translation, ignorance, and haste, we note certain
   outstanding facts as characteristic of the Greek version. It bears
   evident marks of its origin in Egypt in its use of Egyptian words and
   references, and equally evident traces of its Jewish composition. By
   the side of slavish and false literalism there is great liberty, if not
   licence, in handling the original; gross mistakes occur along with
   happy renderings of very difficult passages, suggesting the aid of some
   able scholars. Distinct Jewish elements are undeniably there, which can
   only be explained by reference to Jewish tradition, although they are
   much fewer than some critics have supposed. [121] This we can easily
   understand, since only those traditions would find a place which at
   that early time were not only received, but in general circulation. The
   distinctively Grecian elements, however, are at present of chief
   interest to us. They consist of allusions to Greek mythological terms,
   and adaptations of Greek philosophical ideas. However few, [122] even
   one well-authenticated instance would lead us to suspect others, and in
   general give to the version the character of Jewish Hellenising. In the
   same class we reckon what constitutes the prominent characteristic of
   the LXX. version, which, for want of better terms, we would designate
   as rationalistic and apologetic. Difficulties - or what seemed such -
   are removed by the most bold methods, and by free handling of the text;
   it need scarcely be said, often very unsatisfactorily. More especially
   a strenuous effort is made to banish all anthropomorphisms, as
   inconsistent with their ideas of the Deity. The superficial observer
   might be tempted to regard this as not strictly Hellenistic, since the
   same may be noted, and indeed is much more consistently carried out, in
   the Targum of Onkelos. Perhaps such alterations had even been
   introduced into the Hebrew text itself. [123] But there is this vital
   difference between Palestinianism and Alexandrianism, that, broadly
   speaking, the Hebrew avoidance of anthropomorphisms depends on
   objective - theological and dogmatic - the Hellenistic on subjective -
   philosophical and apologetic - grounds. The Hebrew avoids them as he
   does what seems to him inconsistent with the dignity of Biblical heroes
   and of Israel. Great is the power of the prophets,' he writes, who
   liken the Creator to the creature;' or else [124] a thing is written
   only to break it to the ear' - to adapt it to our human modes of
   speaking and understanding; and again, [125] the words of the Torah are
   like the speech of the children of men.' But for this very purpose the
   words of Scripture may be presented in another form, if need be even
   modified, so as to obviate possible misunderstanding, or dogmatic
   error. The Alexandrians arrived at the same conclusion, but from an
   opposite direction. They had not theological but philosophical axioms
   in their minds - truths which the highest truth could not, and, as they
   held, did not contravene. Only dig deeper; get beyond the letter to
   that to which it pointed; divest abstract truth of its concrete,
   national, Judaistic envelope - penetrate through the dim porch into the
   temple, and you were surrounded by a blaze of light, of which, as its
   portals had been thrown open, single rays had fallen into the night of
   heathendom. And so the truth would appear glorious - more than
   vindicated in their own sight, triumphant in that of others!

   In such manner the LXX. version became really the people's Bible to
   that large Jewish world through which Christianity was afterwards to
   address itself to mankind. It was part of the case, that this
   translation should be regarded by the Hellenists as inspired like the
   original. Otherwise it would have been impossible to make final appeal
   to the very words of the Greek; still less, to find in them a mystical
   and allegorical meaning. Only that we must not regard their views of
   inspiration - except as applying to Moses, and even there only
   partially - as identical with ours. To their minds inspiration differed
   quantitatively, not qualitatively, from what the rapt soul might at any
   time experience, so that even heathen philosophers might ultimately be
   regarded as at times inspired. So far as the version of the Bible was
   concerned (and probably on like grounds), similar views obtained at a
   later period even in Hebrew circles, where it was laid down that the
   Chaldee Targum on the Pentateuch had been originally spoken to Moses on
   Sinai, [126] though afterwards forgotten, till restored and
   re-introduced. [127]

   Whether or not the LXX. was read in the Hellenist Synagogues, and the
   worship conducted, wholly or partly, in Greek, must be matter of
   conjecture. We find, however, a significant notice [128] to the effect
   that among those who spoke a barbarous language (not Hebrew - the term
   referring specially to Greek), it was the custom for one person to read
   the whole Parashah (or lesson for the day), while among the
   Hebrew-speaking Jews this was done by seven persons, successively
   called up. This seems to imply that either the Greek text alone was
   read, or that it followed a Hebrew reading, like the Targum of the
   Easterns. More probably, however, the former would be the case, since
   both Hebrew manuscripts, and persons qualified to read them, would be
   difficult to procure. At any rate, we know that the Greek Scriptures
   were authoritatively acknowledged in Palestine, [129] and that the
   ordinary daily prayers might be said in Greek. [130] The LXX. deserved
   this distinction from its general faithfulness - at least, in regard to
   the Pentateuch - and from its preservation of ancient doctrine. Thus,
   without further referring to its full acknowledgment of the doctrine of
   Angels (comp. Deut. xxxii. 8, xxxiii. 2), we specially mark that is
   preserved the Messianic interpretation of Gen. xlix. 10, and Numb.
   xxiv. 7, 17, 23, bringing us evidence of what had been the generally
   received view two and a half centuries before the birth of Jesus. It
   must have been on the ground of the use made of the LXX. in argument,
   that later voices in the Synagogue declared this version to have been
   as great calamity to Israel as the making of the golden calf, [131] and
   that is completion had been followed by the terrible omen of an
   eclipse, that lasted three days. [132] For the Rabbis declared that
   upon investigation it had been found that the Torah could be adequately
   translated only into Greek, and they are most extravagant in their
   praise of the Greek version of Akylas, or Aquila, the proselyte, which
   was made to counteract the influence of the LXX. [133] But in Egypt the
   anniversary of the completion of the LXX. was celebrated by a feast in
   the island of Pharos, in which ultimately even heathens seem to have
   taken part. [134]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [87] Indeed, the word Alnisti (or Alunistin) - Greek' - actually
   occurs, as in Jer. Sot. 21 b, line 14 from bottom. Böhl (Forsch. n.
   ein. Volksb. p. 7) quotes Philo (Leg. ad Caj. p. 1023) in proof that he
   regarded the Eastern dispersion as a branch separate from the
   Palestinians. But the passage does not convey to me the inference which
   he draws from it. Dr. Guillemard (Hebraisms in the Greek Test.) on Acts
   vi. 1, agreeing with Dr. Roberts, argues that the term Hellenist'
   indicated only principles, and not birthplace, and that there were
   Hebrews and Hellenists in and out of Palestine. But this view is
   untenable.

   [88] An account of this propaganda of Judaism and of its results will
   be given in another connection.

   [89] St. Paul fully describes these feelings in the Epistle to the
   Romans.

   [90] The Gerey haShaar,' proselytes of the gate, a designation which
   some have derived from the circumstance that Gentiles were not allowed
   to advance beyond the Temple Court, but more likely to be traced to
   such passages as Ex. xx. 10; Deut. xiv. 21; xxiv. 14.

   [91] De Vita Mosis, p. 685; Leg ad Caj. p. 1014.

   [92] Leg. ad Caj. p. 1035.

   [93] Ag. Apion ii. 17.

   [94] Comp. here Targ. Jon. on Judg. v. 2, 9. I feel more hesitation in
   appealing to such passages as Ber. 19 a, where we read of a Rabbi in
   Rome, Thodos (Theudos?), who flourished several generations before
   Hillel, for reasons which the passage itself will suggest to the
   student. At the time of Philo, however, such instructions in the
   Synagogues at Rome were a long, established institution (Ad Caj. p.
   1014).

   [95] philoxena, Hebr. xiii. 2.

   [96] lgos paraklseos prs tn lan, Acts xiii. 15.

   [97] Men. 99 b, towards the end.

   [98] Jer. Chag. ii. 1; comp. Chag. 15.

   [99] Jer. Sanh. x. 28 a.

   [100] Yad. iv. 6.

   [101] Through this literature, which as being Jewish might have passed
   unsuspected, a dangerous acquaintance might have been introduced with
   Greek writings - the more readily, that for example Aristobulus
   described Homer and Hesiod as having drawn from our books' (ap. Euseb.
   Praepar. Evang. xiii. 12). According to Hamburger (Real-Encykl. für
   Bibel u. Talmud, vol. ii. pp. 68, 69), the expression Siphrey Homeros
   applies exclusively to the Judæo-Alexandrian heretical writings;
   according to Fürst (Kanon d. A. Test. p. 98), simply to Homeric
   literature. But see the discussion in Levy, Neuhebr. u. Chald.
   Wörterb., vol. i. p. 476 a and b.

   [102] Gitt. 35 last line and b.

   [103] Comp. Friedländer, Sitteng. Roms, vol. iii. p. 315.

   [104] To these causes there should perhaps be added the attempt to
   introduce Grecianism by force into Palestine, the consequences which it
   may have left, and the existence of a Grecian party in the land.

   [105] Aristobulus in Euseb. Præpar. Evang. ix. 6; xiii. 12. The doubts
   raised by Hody against this testimony have been generally repudiated by
   critics since the treatise by Valkenaer (Diatr. de Aristob. Jud.
   appended to Gaisford's ed. of the Præpar. Evang.).

   [106] 286-284 b.c.

   [107] Comp. Josephi Opera, ed. Havercamp, vol. ii. App. pp. 103-132.
   The best and most critical edition of this letter by Prof. M. Schmidt,
   in Merx' Archiv. i. pp. 252-310. The story is found in Jos. Ant. xii.
   2. 2; Ag. Ap. ii. 4; Philo, de Vita Mosis, lib. ii. section 5-7. The
   extracts are most fully given in Euseb. Præpar. Evang. Some of the
   Fathers give the story, with additional embellishments. It was first
   critically called in question by Hody (Contra Historiam Aristeæ de L.
   X. interpret. dissert. Oxon. 1685), and has since been generally
   regarded as legendary. But its foundation in fact has of late been
   recognized by well nigh all critics, though the letter itself is
   pseudonymic, and full of fabulous details.

   [108] This is also otherwise attested. See Keil, Lehrb. d. hist. kr.
   Einl. d. A. T., p. 551, note 5.

   [109] Meg. i.

   [110] Meg. 9 a.

   [111] It is scarcely worth while to refute the view of Tychsen, Jost
   (Gesch. d. Judenth.), and others, that the Jewish writers only wrote
   down for Ptolemy the Hebrew words in Greek letters. But the word
   {hebrew} cannot possibly bear that meaning in this connection. Comp.
   also Frankel, Vorstudien, p. 31.

   [112] According to Sopher. i. 8, by five persons, but that seems a
   round number to correspond to the five books of Moses. Frankel (Ueber
   d. Einfl. d. paläst. Exeg.) labours, however, to show in detail the
   differences between the different translators. But his criticism is
   often strained, and the solution of the question is apparently
   impossible.

   [113] Böhl would have it, the Jerusalem Sanhedrin!'

   [114] But the expression has also been referred to the thirty-eighth
   year of the reign of Euergetes.

   [115] To my mind, at least, the historical evidence, apart from
   critical considerations, seems very strong. Modern writers on the other
   side have confessedly been influenced by the consideration that the
   earlier date of the Book of Sirach would also involve a much earlier
   date for the close of the O. T. Canon than they are disposed to admit.
   More especially would it bear on the question of the so-called
   Maccabean Psalms,' and the authorship and date of the Book of Daniel.
   But historical questions should be treated independently of critical
   prejudices. Winer (Bibl. Realwörterb. i. p. 555), and others after him
   admit that the Simon of Ecclus. ch. L. was indeed Simon the Just (i.),
   but maintain that the Euergetes of the Prologue was the second of that
   name, Ptolemy VII., popularly nicknamed Kakergetes. Comp. the remarks
   of Fritzsche on this view in the Kurzgef. Exeg. Handb. z. d. Apokr. 5te
   Lief. p. xvii.

   [116] Comp. here, besides the passages quoted in the previous note,
   Baba B. 13 b and 14 b; for the cessation of revelation in the Maccabean
   period, 1 Macc. iv. 46; ix. 27; xiv. 41; and, in general, for the
   Jewish view on the subject at the time of Christ, Jos. Ag. Ap. i. 8.

   [117] Anterior: Josh., Judg., 1 and 2 Sam. 1 and 2 Kings. Posterior:
   Major: Is., Jer., and Ezek.; and the Minor Prophets.

   [118] De Vita Contempl. § 3.

   [119] They occur chiefly in 1 Kings, the books of Esther, Job,
   Proverbs, Jeremiah, and Daniel. In the Pentateuch we find them only in
   four passages in the Book of Exodus.

   [120] There is also a curious correspondence between the Samaritan
   version of the Pentateuch and that of the LXX., which in no less than
   about 2,000 passages agree as against our Hebrew, although in other
   instances the Greek text either agrees with the Hebrew against the
   Samaritan, or else is independent of both. On the connection between
   Samaritan literature and Hellenism there are some very interesting
   notices in Freudenthal, Hell. Stud. pp. 82-103, 130-136, 186, &c.

   [121] The extravagant computations in this respect of Frankel (both in
   his work, Ueber d. Einfl. d. Paläst. Exeg., and also in the Vorstud. z.
   Sept. pp. 189-191) have been rectified by Herzfeld (Gesch. d. Vol. Isr.
   vol. iii.), who, perhaps, goes to the other extreme. Herzfeld (pp.
   548-550) admits - and even this with hesitation - of only six distinct
   references to Halakhoth in the following passages in the LXX.: Gen. ix.
   4; xxxii. 32; Lev. xix. 19; xxiv. 7; Deut. xxv. 5; xxvi. 12. As
   instances of Haggadah we may mention the renderings in Gen. v. 24 and
   Ex. x. 23.

   [122] Dähne and Gfrörer have in this respect gone to the same extreme
   as Frankel on the Jewish side. But even Siegfried (Philo v. Alex. p. 8)
   is obliged to admit that the LXX. rendering, dg n ratos ka kataskeastos
   Gen. i. 2), bears undeniable mark of Grecian philosophic views. And
   certainly this is not the sole instance of the kind.

   [123] As in the so-called Tiqquney Sopherim,' or emendations of the
   scribes.' Comp. here generally the investigations of Geiger (Urschrift
   u. Ueberse z. d. Bibel). But these, however learned and ingenious,
   require, like so many of the dicta of modern Jewish criticism, to be
   taken with the utmost caution, and in each case subjected to fresh
   examination, since so large a proportion of their writings are what is
   best designated by the German Tendenz-Schriften, and their inferences
   Tendenz-Schlüsse. But the critic and the historian should have no
   Tendenz - except towards simple fact and historical truth.

   [124] Mechilta on Ex. xix.

   [125] Ber. 31 b.

   [126] Ned. 37 b; Kidd. 49 a.

   [127] Meg. 3 a.

   [128] Jer. Meg. iv. 3, ed. Krot. p. 75a.

   [129] Meg. i. 8. It is, however, fair to confess strong doubt, on my
   part, whether this passage may not refer to the Greek translation of
   Akylas. At the same time it simply speaks of a translation into Greek.
   And before the version of Aquila the LXX. alone held that place. It is
   one of the most daring modern Jewish perversions of history to identify
   this Akylas, who flourished about 130 after Christ, with the Aquila of
   the Book of Acts. It wants even the excuse of a colourable perversion
   of the confused story about Akylas, which Epiphanius who is so
   generally inaccurate, gives in De Pond. et Mensur. c. xiv.

   [130] The Shema' (Jewish creed), with its collects, the eighteen
   benedictions,' and the grace at meat.' A later Rabbi vindicated the use
   of the Shema' in Greek by the argument that the word Shema meant not
   only Hear,' but also understand' (Jer. Sotah vii. 1.) Comp. sotah vii.
   1, 2. In Ber. 40 b, it is said that the Parashah connected with the
   woman suspected of adultery, the prayer and confession at the bringing
   of the tithes, and the various benedictions over food, may be said not
   only in Hebrew, but in any other languages.

   [131] Mass. Sopher i. Hal. 7 - at the close of vol. ix. of the
   Bab.Talmud.

   [132] Hilch. Ged. Taan.

   [133] Jer. Meg. i. 11, ed. Krot. p. 71 b and c.

   [134] Philo, Vita Mos. ii. ed. Francf. p. 660.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER III.
THE OLD FAITH PREPARING FOR THE NEW - DEVELOPMENT OF HELLENIST THEOLOGY: THE
APOCRYPHA, ARISTEAS, ARISTOBULUS, AND THE PSEUDEPIGRAPHIC WRITINGS.


   The translation of the Old Testament into Greek may be regarded as the
   starting-point of Hellenism. It rendered possible the hope that what in
   its original form had been confined to the few, might become accessible
   to the world at large. [135] But much yet remained to be done. If the
   religion of the Old Testament had been brought near to the Grecian
   world of thought, the latter had still to be brought near to Judaism.
   Some intermediate stage must be found; some common ground on which the
   two might meet; some original kindredness of spirit to which their
   later divergences might be carried back, and where they might finally
   be reconciled. As the first attempt in this direction - first in order,
   if not always in time - we mark the so-called Apocryphal literature,
   most of which was either written in Greek, or is the product of
   Hellenising Jews. [136] Its general object was twofold. First, of
   course, it was apologetic - intended to fill gaps in Jewish history or
   thought, but especially to strengthen the Jewish mind against attacks
   from without, and generally to extol the dignity of Israel. Thus, more
   withering sarcasm could scarcely be poured on heathenism than in the
   apocryphal story of Bel and the Dragon,' or in the so-called Epistle of
   Jeremy,' with which the Book of Baruch' closes. The same strain, only
   in more lofty tones, resounds through the Book of the Wisdom of
   Solomon,' [137] along with the constantly implied contrast between the
   righteous, or Israel, and sinners, or the heathen. But the next object
   was to show that the deeper and purer thinking of heathenism in its
   highest philosophy supported - nay, in some respects, was identical
   with - the fundamental teaching of the Old Testament. This, of course,
   was apologetic of the Old Testament, but it also prepared the way for a
   reconciliation with Greek philosophy. We notice this especially in the
   so-called Fourth Book of Maccabees, so long erroneously attributed to
   Josephus, [138] and in the Wisdom of Solomon.' The first postulate here
   would be the acknowledgment of truth among the Gentiles, which was the
   outcome of Wisdom - and Wisdom was the revelation of God. This seems
   already implied in so thoroughly Jewish a book as that of Jesus the Son
   of Sirach. [139] Of course there could be no alliance with
   Epicureanism, which was at the opposite pole of the Old Testament. But
   the brilliancy of Plato's speculations would charm, while the stern
   self-abnegation of Stoicism would prove almost equally attractive. The
   one would show why they believed, the other why they lived, as they
   did. Thus the theology of the Old Testament would find a rational basis
   in the ontology of Plato, and its ethics in the moral philosophy of the
   Stoics. Indeed, this is the very line of argument which Josephus
   follows in the conclusion of his treatise against Apion. [140] This,
   then, was an unassailable position to take: contempt poured on
   heathenism as such, [141] and a rational philosophical basis for
   Judaism. They were not deep, only acute thinkers, these Alexandrians,
   and the result of their speculations was a curious Eclecticism, in
   which Platonism and Stoicism are found, often heterogeneously, side by
   side. Thus, without further details, it may be said that the Fourth
   Book of Maccabees is a Jewish Stoical treatise on the Stoical theme of
   the supremacy of reason,' the proposition, stated at the outset, that
   pious reason bears absolute sway over the passions,' being illustrated
   by the story of the martyrdom of Eleazar, and of the mother and her
   seven sons. [142] On the other hand, that sublime work, the Wisdom of
   Solomon,' contains Platonic and Stoic elements [143] - chiefly perhaps
   the latter - the two occurring side by side. Thus [144] Wisdom,' which
   is so concretely presented as to be almost hypostatised, [145] is first
   described in the language of Stoicism, [146] and afterwards set forth,
   in that of Platonism, [147] as the breath of the power of God;' as a
   pure influence flowing from the glory of the Almighty;' the brightness
   of the everlasting light, the unspotted mirror of the power of God, and
   the image of His goodness.' Similarly, we have [148] a Stoical
   enumeration of the four cardinal virtues, temperance, prudence,
   justice, and fortitude, and close by it the Platonic idea of the soul's
   pre-existence, [149] and of earth and matter pressing it down. [150]
   How such views would point in the direction of the need of a perfect
   revelation from on high, as in the Bible, and of its rational
   possibility, need scarcely be shown.

   But how did Eastern Judaism bear itself towards this Apocryphal
   literature? We find it described by a term which seems to correspond to
   our Apocrypha,' as Sepharim Genuzim,' hidden books,' i.e., either such
   whose origin was hidden, or, more likely, books withdrawn from common
   or congregational use. Although they were, of course, carefully
   distinguished from the canonical Scriptures, as not being sacred, their
   use was not only allowed, but many of them are quoted in Talmudical
   writings. [151] In this respect they are placed on a very different
   footing from the so-called Sepharim Chitsonim, or outside books,' which
   probably included both the products of a certain class of Jewish
   Hellenistic literature, and the Siphrey Minim, or writings of the
   heretics. Against these Rabbinism can scarcely find terms of sufficient
   violence, even debarring from share in the world to come those who read
   them. [152] This, not only because they were used in controversy, but
   because their secret influence on orthodox Judaism was dreaded. For
   similar reasons, later Judaism forbade the use of the Apocrypha in the
   same manner as that of the Sepharim Chitsonim. But their influence had
   already made itself felt. The Apocrypha, the more greedily perused, not
   only for their glorification of Judaism, but that they were, so to
   speak, doubtful reading, which yet afforded a glimpse into that
   forbidden Greek world, opened the way for other Hellenistic literature,
   of which unacknowledged but frequent traces occur in Talmudical
   writings. [153]

   To those who thus sought to weld Grecian thought with Hebrew
   revelation, two objects would naturally present themselves. They must
   try to connect their Greek philosophers with the Bible, and they must
   find beneath the letter of Scripture a deeper meaning, which would
   accord with philosophic truth. So far as the text of Scripture was
   concerned, they had a method ready to hand. The Stoic philosophers had
   busied themselves in finding a deeper allegorical meaning, especially
   in the writings of Homer. By applying it to mythical stories, or to the
   popular beliefs, and by tracing the supposed symbolical meaning of
   names, numbers, &c., it became easy to prove almost anything, or to
   extract from these philosophical truths ethical principles, and even
   the later results of natural science. [154] Such a process was
   peculiarly pleasing to the imagination, and the results alike
   astounding and satisfactory, since as they could not be proved, so
   neither could they be disproved. This allegorical method [155] was the
   welcome key by which the Hellenists might unlock the hidden treasury of
   Scripture. In point of fact, we find it applied so early as in the
   Wisdom of Solomon.' [156]

   But as yet Hellenism had scarcely left the domain of sober
   interpretation. it is otherwise in the letter of the Pseudo-Aristeas,
   to which reference has already been made. [157] Here the wildest
   symbolism is put into the mouth of the High-Priest Eleazar, to convince
   Aristeas and his fellow-ambassador that the Mosaic ordinances
   concerning food had not only a political reason - to keep Israel
   separate from impious nations - and a sanitary one, but chiefly a
   mystical meaning. The birds allowed for food were all tame and pure,
   and they fed on corn or vegetable products, the opposite being the case
   with those forbidden. The first lesson which this was intended to teach
   was, that Israel must be just, and not seek to obtain aught from others
   by violence; but, so to speak, imitate the habits of those birds which
   were allowed them. The next lesson would be, that each must learn to
   govern his passions and inclinations. Similarly, the direction about
   cloven hoofs pointed to the need of making separation - that is,
   between good and evil; and that about chewing the cud to the need of
   remembering, viz. God and His will. [158] In such manner, according to
   Aristeas, did the High Priest go through the catalogue of things
   forbidden, and of animals to be sacrificed, showing from their hidden
   meaning' the majesty and sanctity of the Law. [159]

   This was an important line to take, and it differed in principle from
   the allegorical method adopted by the Eastern Jews. Not only the
   Dorshey Reshumoth, [160] or searches out of the subleties of Scripture,
   of their indications, but even the ordinary Haggadist employed, indeed,
   allegoric interpretations. Thereby Akiba vindicated for the Song of
   Songs' its place in the Canon. Did not Scripture say: One thing spake
   God, twofold is what I heard,' [161] and did not this imply a twofold
   meaning; nay, could not the Torah be explained by many different
   methods? [162] What, for example, was the water which Israel sought in
   the wilderness, or the bread and raiment which Jacob asked in Bethel,
   but the Torah and the dignity which it conferred? But in all these, and
   innumerable similar instances, the allegorical interpretation was only
   an application of Scripture for homiletical purposes, not a searching
   into a rationale beneath, such as that of the Hellenists. The latter
   the Rabbis would have utterly repudiated, on their express principle
   that Scripture goes not beyond its plain meaning.' [163] They sternly
   insisted, that we ought not to search into the ulterior object and
   rationale of a law, but simply obey it. But it was this very rationale
   of the Law which the Alexandrians sought to find under its letter. It
   was in this sense that Aristobulus, a Hellenist Jew of Alexandria,
   [164] sought to explain Scripture. Only a fragment of his work, which
   seems to have been a Commentary on the Pentateuch, dedicated to King
   Ptolemy (Philometor), has been preserved to us (by Clement of
   Alexandria, and by Eusebius [165] ). According to Clement of
   Alexandria, his aim was, to bring the Peripatetic philosophy out of the
   law of Moses, and out of the other prophets.' Thus, when we read that
   God stood, it meant the stable order of the world; that He created the
   world in six days, the orderly succession of time; the rest of the
   Sabbath, the preservation of what was created. And in such manner could
   the whole system of Aristole be found in the Bible. But how was this to
   be accounted for? Of course, the Bible had not learned from Aristole,
   but he and all the other philosphers had learned from the Bible. Thus,
   according to Aristobulus, Pythagoras, Plato, and all the other sages
   had really learned from Moses, and the broken rays found in their
   writings were united in all their glory in the Torah.

   It was a tempting path on which to enter, and one on which there was no
   standing still. It only remained to give fixedness to the allegorical
   method by reducing it to certain principles, or canons of criticism,
   and to form the heterogeneous mass of Grecian philosophemes and Jewish
   theologumena into a compact, if not homogeneous system. This was the
   work of Philo of Alexandria, born about 20 b.c. It concerns us not here
   to inquire what were the intermediate links between Aristobulus and
   Philo. Another and more important point claims our attention. If
   ancient Greek philosophy knew the teaching of Moses, where was the
   historic evidence for it? If such did not exist, it must somehow be
   invented. Orpheus was a name which had always lent itself to literary
   fraud, [166] and so Aristobulus boldly produces (whether of his own or
   of others' making) a number of spurious citations from Hesiod, Homer,
   Linus, but especially from Orpheus, all Biblical and Jewish in their
   cast. Aristobulus was neither the first nor the last to commit such
   fraud. The Jewish Sibyl boldly, and, as we shall see, successfully
   personated the heathen oracles. And this opens, generally, quite a
   vista of Jewish-Grecia literature. In the second, and even in the third
   century before Christ, there were Hellenist historians, such as
   Eupolemus, Artapanus, Demetrius, and Aristeas; tragic and epic poets,
   such as Ezekiel, Pseudo-Philo, and Theodotus, who, after the manner of
   the ancient classical writers, but for their own purposes, described
   certain periods of Jewish history, or sang of such themes as the
   Exodus, Jerusalem, or the rape of Dinah.

   The mention of these spurious quotations naturally leads us to another
   class of spurious literature, which, although not Hellenistic, has many
   elements in common with it, and, even when originating with Palestinian
   Jews is not Palestinian, nor yet has been preserved in its language. We
   allude to what are known as the Pseudepigraphic, or Pseudonymic
   Writings, so called because, with one exception, they bear false names
   of authorship. It is difficult to arrange them otherwise than
   chronologically - and even here the greatest difference of opinions
   prevails. Their general character (with one exception) may be described
   as anti-heathen, perhaps missionary, but chiefly as Apocalyptic. They
   are attempts at taking up the key-note struck in the prophecies of
   Daniel; rather, we should say, to lift the veil only partially raised
   by him, and to point - alike as concerned Israel, and the kingdoms of
   the world - to the past, the present, and the future, in the light of
   the Kingship of the Messiah. Here, if anywhere, we might expect to find
   traces of New Testament teaching; and yet, side by side with frequent
   similarity of form, the greatest difference - we had almost said
   contrast - in spirit, prevails.

   Many of these works must have perished. In one of the latest of them
   [167] they are put down at seventy, probably a round number, having
   reference to the supposed number of the nations of the earth, or to
   every possible mode of interpreting Scripture. They are described as
   intended for the wise among the people,' probably those whom St. Paul,
   in the Christian sense, designates as knowing the time' [168] [169] of
   the Advent of the Messiah. Viewed in this light, they embody the ardent
   aspirataions and the inmost hopes [170] of those who longed for the
   consolation of Israel,' as they understood it. Nor should we judge
   their personations of authorship according to our Western ideas. [171]
   Pseudonymic writings were common in that age, and a Jew might perhaps
   plead that, even in the Old Testament, books had been headed by names
   which confessedly were not those of their authors (such as Samuel,
   Ruth, Esther). If those inspired poets who sang in the spirit, and
   echoed the strains, of Asaph, adopted that designation, and the sons of
   Korah preferred to be known by that title, might not they, who could no
   longer claim the authority of inspiration seek attention for their
   utterances by adopting the names of those in whose spirit they
   professed to write?

   The most interesting as well as the oldest of these books are those
   known as the Book of Enoch, the Sibylline Oracles, the Psalter of
   Solomon, and the Book of Jubilees, or Little Genesis. Only the briefest
   notice of them can here find a place. [172]

   The Book of Enoch, the oldest parts of which date a century and a half
   before Christ, comes to us from Palestine. It professes to be a vision
   vouchsafed to that Patriacrch, and tells of the fall of the Angels and
   its consequences, and of what he saw and heard in his rapt journeys
   through heaven and earth. Of deepest, though often sad, interest, is
   what it says of the Kingdom of Heaven, of the advent of Messiah and His
   Kingdom, and of the last things.

   On the other hand, the Sibylline Oracles, of which the oldest portions
   date from about 160 b.c., come to us from Egypt. It is to the latter
   only that we here refer. Their most interesting parts are also the most
   characteristic. In them the ancient heathen myths of the first ages of
   man are welded together with Old Testament notices, while the heathen
   Theogony is recast in a Jewish mould. Thus Noah becomes Uranos, Shem
   Saturn, Ham Titan, and Japheth Japetus. Similarly, we have fragments of
   ancient heathen oracles, so to speak, recast in a Jewish edition. The
   strangest circumstance is, that the utterances of this Judaising and
   Jewish Sibyl seem to have passed as the oracles of the ancient
   Erythraean, which had predicted the fall of Troy, and as those of the
   Sibyl of Cumae, which, in the infancy of Rome, Tarquinius Superbus had
   deposited in the Capitol.

   The collection of eighteen hymns known as the Psalter of Solomon dates
   from more than half a century before our era. No doubt the original was
   Hebrew, though they breathe a somewhat Hellenistic spirit. They express
   ardent Messianic aspirations, and a firm faith in the Resurrection, and
   in eternal rewards and punishments.

   Different in character from the preceding works is The Book of Jubilees
   - so called from its chronological arrangement into Jubilee-periods' -
   or Little Genesis.' It is chiefly a kind of legendary supplement to the
   Book of Genesis, intended to explain some of its historic difficulties,
   and to fill up its historic lacunæ. It was probably written about the
   time of Christ - and this gives it a special interest - by a
   Palestinian, and in Hebrew, or rather Aramæan. But, like the rest of
   the Apocryphal and Pseudepigraphic literature which comes from
   Palestine, or was originally written in Hebrew, we posses it no longer
   in that language, but only in translation.

   If from this brief review of Hellenist and Pseudepigraphic literature
   we turn to take a retrospect, we can scarcely fail to perceive, on the
   one hand, the development of the old, and on the other the preparation
   for the new - in other words, the grand expectancy awakened, and the
   grand preparation made. One step only remained to complete what
   Hellenism had already begun. That completion came through one who,
   although himself untouched by the Gospel, perhaps more than any other
   prepared alike his co-religionists the Jews, and his countrymen the
   Greeks, for the new teaching, which, indeed, was presented by many of
   its early advocates in the forms which they had learned from him. That
   man was Philo the Jew, of Alexandria.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [135] Philo, de Vita Mos. ed. Mangey, ii. p. 140.

   [136] All the Apocrypha were originally written in Greek, except 1
   Macc., Judith, part of Baruch, probably Tobit, and, of course, the
   Wisdom of Jesus the Son of Sirach.'

   [137] Comp. x. - xx.

   [138] It is printed in Havercamp's edition of Josephus, vol. ii. pp.
   497-520. The best edition is in Fritzsche, Libri Apocryphi Vet. Test.
   (Lips. 1871).

   [139] Comp. for ex. Ecclus. xxiv. 6.

   [140] ii. 39, 40.

   [141] Comp. also Jos. Ag. Ap. ii. 34.

   [142] Comp. 2 Macc. vi. 18 - vii. 41.

   [143] Ewald (Gesch. d. Volkes Isr., vol. iv. pp. 626-632) has given a
   glowing sketch of it. Ewald rightly says that its Grecian elements have
   been exaggerated; but Bucher (Lehre vom Logos, pp. 59-62) utterly fails
   in denying their presence altogether.

   [144] Ch. vii. 22-27.

   [145] Compare especially ix. 1; xviii. 14-16, where the idea of sopha
   passes into that of the lgos. Of course the above remarks are not
   intended to depreciate the great value of this book, alike in itself,
   and in its practical teaching, in its clear enunciation of a
   retribution as awaiting man, and in its important bearing on the New
   Testament revelation of the lgos.

   [146] Vv. 22-24.

   [147] Vv. 25-29.

   [148] In ch. viii. 7.

   [149] In vv. 19, 20.

   [150] ix. 15.

   [151] Some Apocryphal books which have not been preserved to us are
   mentioned in Talmudical writings, among them one, The roll of the
   building of the Temple,' alas, lost to us! Comp. Hamburger, vol. ii.
   pp. 66-70.

   [152] Sanh 100.

   [153] Comp. Siegfried, Philo von Alex. pp. 275-299, who, however,
   perhaps overstates the matter.

   [154] Comp. Siegfried, pp. 9-16; Hartmann, Enge Verb. d. A. Test. mit
   d. N., pp. 568-572.

   [155] This is to be carefully distinguished from the typical
   interpretation and from the mystical - the type being prophetic, the
   mystery spiritually understood.

   [156] Not to speak of such sounder interpretations as that of the
   brazen serpent (Wisd. xvi. 6, 7), and of the Fall (ii. 24), or of the
   view presented of the early history of the chosen race in ch. x., we
   may mention as instances of allegorical interpretation that of the
   manna (xvi. 26-28), and of the high-priestly dress (xviii. 24), to
   which, no doubt, others might be added. But I cannot find sufficient
   evidence of this allegorical method in the Wisdom of Jesus the Son of
   Sirach. The reasoning of Hartmann (u. s., pp. 542-547) seems to me
   greatly strained. Of the existence of allegorical interpretations in
   the Synoptic Gospels, or of any connection with Hellenism, such as
   Hartmann, Siegfried, and Loesner (Obs. ad. N.T. e Phil. Alex) put into
   them, I cannot, on examination, discover any evidence. Similarity of
   expressions, or even of thought, afford no evidence of inward
   connection. Of the Gospel by St. John we shall speak in the sequel. In
   the Pauline Epistles we find, as might be expected, some allegorical
   interpretations, chiefly in those to the Corinthians, perhaps owing to
   the connection of that church with Apollos. Comp here 1 Cor. ix. 9; x.
   4 (Philo, Quod deter. potiori insid. 31); 2 Cor. iii. 16; Gal. iv. 21.
   Of the Epistle to the Hebrews and the Apocalypse we cannot here speak.

   [157] See p. 25.

   [158] A similar principle applied to the prohibition of such species as
   the mouse or the weasel, not only because they destroyed everything,
   but because the latter, from its mode of conceiving and bearing,
   symbolized listening to evil tales, and exaggerated, lying, or
   malicious speech.

   [159] Of course this method is constantly adopted by Josephus. Comp.
   for example, Ant. iii. 1. 6; 7. 7.

   [160] Or Dorshey Chamuroth, searchers of difficult passages. Zunz.
   Gottesd. Vortr. p. 323. note b.

   [161] Ps. lxii. 11; Sanh. 34 a.

   [162] The seventy languages in which the Law was supposed to have been
   written below Mount Ebal (Sotah vii. 5). I cannot help feeling this may
   in part also refer to the various modes of interpreting Holy Scripture,
   and that there is an allusion to this Shabb. 88 b, where Ps. lxviii.
   12. and Jer. xxiii. 29, are quoted, the latter to show that the word of
   God is like a hammer that breaks the rock in a thousand pieces. Comp.
   Rashi on Gen. xxxiii. 20.

   [163] Perhaps we ought here to point out one of the most important
   principles of Rabbinism, which has been almost entirely overlooked in
   modern criticism of the Talmud. It is this: that any ordinance, not
   only of the Divine law, but of the Rabbis, even though only given for a
   particular time or occasion, or for a special reason, remains in full
   force for all time unless it be expressly recalled (Betsah 5 b). Thus
   Maimonides (Sepher ha Mitsv.) declares the law to extirpate the
   Canaanites as continuing in its obligations. The inferences as to the
   perpetual obligation, not only of the ceremonial law, but of
   sacrifices, will be obvious, and their bearing on the Jewish
   controversy need not be explained. Comp. Chief Rabbi Holdheim. d.
   Ceremonial Gesetz in Messasreich, 1845.

   [164] About 160 b.c.

   [165] Præpar. Evang. vii. 14. 1 ; vii. 10. 1-17; xiii. 12.

   [166] As Val. Kenaer puts it, Daitr. de Aristob. Jud. p. 73.

   [167] 4 Esdras xiv. 44, 46.

   [168] Rom. xiii. 11.

   [169] The kairs of St. Paul seems here used in exactly the same sense
   as in later Hebrew {hebrew}.  The Septuagint renders it so in five
   passages (Ezr. 5:3; Dan. 4:33; 6:10; 7:22, 25).

   [170] Of course, it suits Jewish, writers, like Dr. Jost, to deprecate
   the value of the Pseudepigrapha. Their ardour of expectancy ill agrees
   with the modern theories, which would eliminate, if possible, the
   Messianic hope from ancient Judaism.

   [171] Comp. Dillmann in Herzog's Real-Encykl. vol. xii. p. 301.

   [172] For a brief review of the Pseudepigraphic Writings,' see Appendix
   I.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER IV.
PHILO OF ALEXANDRIA, THE RABBIS, AND THE GOSPELS - THE FINAL DEVELOPMENT OF
HELLENISM IN ITS RELATION TO RABBINISM AND THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO ST. JOHN.


   It is strange how little we know of the personal history of the
   greatest of uninspired Jewish writers of old, though he occupied so
   prominent a position in his time. [173] Philo was born in Alexandria,
   about the year 20 before Christ. He was a descendant of Aaron, and
   belonged to one of the wealthiest and most influential families among
   the Jewish merchant-princes of Egypt. His brother was the political
   head of that community in Alexandria, and he himself on one occasion
   represented his co-religionists, though unsuccessfully, at Rome, [174]
   as the head of an embassy to entreat the Emperior Caligula for
   protection from the persecutions consequent on the Jewish resistance to
   placing statues of the Emperor in their Synagogues. But it is not with
   Philo, the wealthy aristocratic Jew of Alexandria, but with the great
   writer and thinker who, so to speak, completed Jewish Hellenism, that
   we have here to do. Let us see what was his relation alike to heathen
   philosophy and to the Jewish faith, of both of which he was the ardent
   advocate, and how in his system he combined the teaching of the two.

   To begin with, Philo united in rare measure Greek learning with Jewish
   enthusiasm. In his writings he very frequently uses classical modes of
   expression; [175] he names not fewer than sixty-four Greek writers;
   [176] and he either alludes to, or quotes frequently from, such sources
   as Homer, Hesiod, Pindar, Solon, the great Greek tragedians, Plato, and
   others. But to him these men were scarcely heathen.' He had sat at
   their feet, and learned to weave a system from Pythagoras, Plato,
   Aristotle, and the Stoics. The gatherings of these philosophers were
   holy,' and Plato was the great.' But holier than all was the gathering
   of the true Israel; and incomparably greater than any, Moses. From him
   had all sages learned, and with him alone was all truth to be found -
   not, indeed, in the letter, but under the letter, of Holy Scripture. If
   in Numb. xxiii. 19 we read God is not a man,' and in Deut. i. 31 that
   the Lord was as a man,' did it not imply, on the one hand, the
   revelation of absolute truth by God, and, on the other, accommodation
   to those who were weak? Here, then, was the principle of a twofold
   interpretation of the Word of God - the literal and the allegorical.
   The letter of the text must be held fast; and Biblical personages and
   histories were real. But only narrow-minded slaves of the letter would
   stop here; the more so, as sometimes the literal meaning alone would be
   tame, even absurd; while the allegorical interpretation gave the true
   sense, even though it might occassionally run counter to the letter.
   Thus, the patriarchs represented states of the soul; and, whatever the
   letter might bear, Joseph represented one given to the fleshly, whom
   his brothers rightly hated; Simeon the soul aiming after the higher;
   the killing of the Egyptian by Moses, the subjugation of passion, and
   so on. But this allegorical interpretation - by the side of the literal
   (the Peshat of the Palestinians) - though only for the few, was not
   arbitrary. It had its laws,' and canons' - some of which excluded the
   literal interpretation, while others admitted it by the side of the
   higher meaning. [177]

   To begin with the former: the literal sense must be wholly set aside,
   when it implied anything unworthy of the Deity, anything unmeaning,
   impossible, or contrary to reason. Manifestly, this canon, if strictly
   applied, would do away not only with all anthropomorphisms, but cut the
   knot wherever difficulties seemed insuperable. Again, Philo would find
   an allegorical, along with the literal, interpretation indicated in the
   reduplication of a word, and in seemingly superfluous words, particles,
   or expressions. [178] These could, of course, only bear such a meaning
   on Philo's assumption of the actual inspiration of the LXX. version.
   Similarly, in exact accordance with a Talmudical canon, [179] any
   repetition of what had been already stated would point to something
   new. These were comparatively sober rules of exegesis. Not so the
   licence which he claimed of freely altering the punctuation [180] of
   sentences, and his notion that, if one from among several synonymous
   words was chosen in a passage, this pointed to some special meaning
   attaching to it. Even more extravagant was the idea, that a word which
   occurred in the LXX. might be interpreted according to every shade of
   meaning which it bore in the Greek, and that even another meaning might
   be given it by slightly altering the letters. However, like other of
   Philo's allegorical canons, these were also adopted by the Rabbis, and
   Haggadic interpretations were frequently prefaced by: Read not thus -
   but thus.' If such violence might be done to the text, we need not
   wonder at interpretations based on a play upon words, or even upon
   parts of a word. Of course, all seemingly strange or peculiar modes of
   expression, or of designation, occurring in Scripture, must have their
   special meaning, and so also every particle, adverb, or preposition.
   Again, the position of a verse, its succession by another, the
   apparently unaccountable presence or absence of a word, might furnish
   hints for some deeper meaning, and so would an unexpected singular for
   a plural, or vice versâ, the use of a tense, even the gender of a word.
   Most serious of all, an allegorical interpretation might be again
   employed as the basis of another. [181]

   We repeat, that these allegorical canons of Philo are essentially the
   same as those of Jewish traditionalism in the Haggadah, [182] only the
   latter were not rationalising, and far more brilliant in their
   application. [183] In another respect also the Palestinian had the
   advantage of the Alexandrian exegesis. Reverently and cautiously it
   indicated what might be omitted in public reading, and why; what
   expressions of the original might be modified by the Meturgeman, and
   how; so as to avoid alike one danger by giving a passage in its
   literality, and another by adding to the sacred text, or conveying a
   wrong impression of the Divine Being, or else giving occasion to the
   unlearned and unwary of becoming entangled in dangerous speculations.
   Jewish tradition here lays down some principles which would be of great
   practical use. Thus we are told, [184] that Scripture uses the modes of
   expression common among men. This would, of course, include all
   anthropomorphisms. Again, sometimes with considerable ingenuity, a
   suggestion is taken from a word, such as that Moses knew the Serpent
   was to be made of brass from the similarity of the two words (nachash,
   a serpent, and nechosheth, brass.) [185] Similarly, it is noted that
   Scripture uses euphemistic language, so as to preserve the greatest
   delicacy. [186] These instances might be multiplied, but the above will
   suffice.

   In his symbolical interpretations Philo only partially took the same
   road as the Rabbis. The symbolism of numbers and, so far as the
   Sanctuary was concerned, that of colours, and even materials, may,
   indeed, be said to have its foundation in the Old Testament itself. The
   same remark applies partially to that of names. The Rabbis certainly so
   interpreted them. [187] But the application which Philo made of this
   symbolism was very different. Everything became symbolical in his
   hands, if it suited his purpose: numbers (in a very arbitrary manner),
   beasts, birds, fowls, creeping things, plants, stones, elements,
   substances, conditions, even sex - and so a term or an expression might
   even have several and contradictory meanings, from which the
   interpreter was at liberty to choose.

   From the consideration of the method by which Philo derived from
   Scriptures his theological views, we turn to a brief analysis of these
   views. [188]

   1. Theology. - In reference to God, we find, side by side, the
   apparently contradictory views of the Platonic and the Stoic schools.
   Following the former, the sharpest distinction was drawn between God
   and the world. God existed neither in space, nor in time; He had
   neither human qualities nor affections; in fact, He was without any
   qualities (poios), and even without any name (etos) ; hence, wholly
   uncognisable by man (katleptos). Thus, changing the punctuation and the
   accents, the LXX. of Gen. iii. 9 was made to read: Adam, thou art
   somewhere;' but God had no somewhere, as Adam seemed to think when he
   hid himself from Him. In the above sense, also, Ex. iii. 14, and vi. 3,
   were explained, and the two names Elohim and Jehovah belonged really to
   the two supreme Divine Potencies,' while the fact of God's being
   uncognisable appeared from Ex. xx. 21.

   But side by side with this we have, to save the Jewish, or rather Old
   Testament, idea of creation and providence, the Stoic notion of God as
   immanent in the world - in fact, as that alone which is real in it, as
   always working: in short, to use his own Pantheistic expression, as
   Himself one and the all' (es ka t pn). Chief in His Being is His
   goodness, the forthgoing of which was the ground of creation. Only the
   good comes from Him. With matter He can have nothing to do - hence the
   plural number in the account of creation. God only created the soul,
   and that only of the good. In the sense of being immanent,' God is
   everywhere - nay, all things are really only in Him, or rather He is
   the real in all. But chiefly is God the wellspring and the light of the
   soul - its Saviour' from the Egypt' of passion. Two things follow. With
   Philo's ideas of the sepration between God and matter, it was
   impossible always to account for miracles or interpositions.
   Accordingly, these are sometimes allegorised, sometimes
   rationalistically explained. Further, the God of Philo, whatever he
   might say to the contrary, was not the God of that Israel which was His
   chosen people.

   2. Intermediary Beings. - Potencies (dunmeis, lgoi). If, in what has
   preceded, we have once and again noticed a remarkable similarity
   between Philo and the Rabbis, there is a still more curious analogy
   between his teaching and that of Jewish Mysticism, as ultimately fully
   developed in the Kabbalah.' The very term Kabbalah (from qibbel, to
   hand down) seems to point out not only its descent by oral tradition,
   but also its ascent to ancient sources. [189] Its existence is
   presupposed, and its leading ideas are sketched in the Mishnah. [190]
   The Targums also bear at least one remarkable trace of it. May it not
   be, that as Philo frequently refers to ancient tradition, so both
   Eastern and Western Judaism may here have drawn from one and the same
   source - we will not venture to suggest, how high up - while each made
   such use of it as suited their distinctive tendencies? At any rate the
   Kabbalah also, likening Scripture to a person, compares those who study
   merely the letter, to them who attend only to the dress; those who
   consider the moral of a fact, to them who attend to the body; while the
   initiated alone, who regard the hidden meaning, are those who attend to
   the soul. Again, as Philo, so the oldest part of the Mishnah [191]
   designates God as Maqom - the place' - the tpos, the all-comprehending,
   what the Kabbalists called the EnSoph, the boundless,' that God,
   without any quality, Who becomes cognisable only by His manifestations.
   [192]

   The manifestations of God! But neither Eastern mystical Judaism, nor
   the philosophy of Philo, could admit of any direct contact between God
   and creation. The Kabbalah solved the difficulty by their Sephiroth,
   [193] or emanations from God, through which this contact was ultimately
   brought about, and of which the EnSoph, or crown, was the spring: the
   source from which the infinite light issued.' If Philo found greater
   difficulties, he had also more ready help from the philosophical
   systems to hand. His Sephiroth were Potencies' (dunmeis), Words'
   (lgoi), intermediate powers. Potencies,' as we imagine, when viewed
   Godwards; Words,' as viewed creationwards. They were not emanations,
   but, according to Plato, archetypal ideas,' on the model of which all
   that exists was formed; and also, according to the Stoic idea, the
   cause of all, pervading all, forming all, and sustaining all. Thus
   these Potencies' were wholly in God, and yet wholly out of God. If we
   divest all this of its philosophical colouring, did not Eastern Judaism
   also teach that there was a distinction between the Unapproachable God,
   and God manifest? [194]

   Another remark will show the parallelism between Philo and Rabbinism.
   [195] As the latter speaks of the two qualities (Middoth) of Mercy and
   Judgment in the Divine Being, [196] and distinguishes between Elohim as
   the God of Justice, and Jehovah as the God of Mercy and Grace, so Philo
   places next to the Divine Word (theos lgos), Goodness (gathotes), as
   the Creative Potency (poietik dnamis), and Power (xousia), as the
   Ruling Potency (basilik dnamis), proving this by a curious etymological
   derivation of the words for God' and Lord' (Thes and krios) -
   apparently unconscious that the LXX., in direct contradiction,
   translated Jehovah by Lord (krios), and Elohim by God (Thes)! These two
   potencies of goodness and power, Philo sees in the two Cherubim, and in
   the two Angels' which accompanied God (the Divine Word), when on his
   way to destroy the cities of the plain. But there were more than these
   two Potencies. In one place Philo enumerates six, according to the
   number of the cities of refuge. The Potencies issued from God as the
   beams from the light, as the waters from the spring, as the breath from
   a person; they were immanent in God, and yet also without Him - motions
   on the part of God, and yet independent beings. They were the ideal
   world, which in its impulse outwards, meeting matter, produced this
   material world of ours. They were also the angels of God - His
   messengers to man, the media through whom He reveled Himself. [197]

   3. The Logos. - Viewed in its bearing on New Testament teaching, this
   part of Philo's system raises the most interesting questions. But it is
   just here that our difficulties are greatest. We can understand the
   Platonic conception of the Logos as the archetypal idea,' and that of
   the Stoics as the world-reason' pervading matter. Similarly, we can
   perceive, how the Apocrypha - especially the Book of Wisdom - following
   up the Old Testament typical truth concerning Wisdom' (as specially set
   forth in the Book of Proverbs) almost arrived so far as to present
   Wisdom' as a special Subsistence' (hypostatising it). More than this,
   in Talmudical writings, we find mention not only of the Shem, or Name,'
   [198] but also of the Shekhinah,' God as manifest and present, which is
   sometimes also presented as the Ruach ha Qodesh, of Holy Spirit. [199]
   But in the Targumim we get yet another expression, which, strange to
   say, never occurs in the Talmud. [200] It is that of the Memra, Logos,
   or Word.' Not that the term is exclusively applied to the Divine Logos.
   [201] But it stands out as perhaps the most remarkable fact in this
   literature, that God - not as in His permanent manifestation, or
   manifest Presence - but as revealing Himself, is designated Memra.
   Altogether that term, as applied to God, occurs in the Targum Onkelos
   179 times, in the so-called Jerusalem Targum 99 times, and in the
   Targum Pseudo-Jonathan 321 times. A critical analysis shows that in 82
   instances in Onkelos, in 71 instances in the Jerusalem Targum, and in
   213 instances in the Targum Pseudo-Jonathan, the designation Memra is
   not only distinguished from God, but evidently refers to God as
   revealing Himself. [202] But what does this imply? The distinction
   between God and the Memra of Jehovah is marked in many passages. [203]
   Similarly, the Memra of Jehovah is distinguished from the Shekhinah.
   [204] Nor is the term used instead of the sacred word Jehovah; [205]
   nor for the well-known Old Testament expression the Angel of the Lord;'
   [206] nor yet for the Metatron of the Targum Pseudo-Jonathan and of the
   Talmud. [207] Does it then represent an older tradition underlying all
   these? [208] Beyond this Rabbinic theology has not preserved to us the
   doctrine of Personal distinctions in the Godhead. And yet, if words
   have any meaning, the Memra is a hypostasis, though the distinction of
   permanent, personal Subsistence is not marked. Nor yet, to complete
   this subject, is the Memra identified with the Messiah. In the Targum
   Onkelos distinct mention is twice made of Him, [209] while in the other
   Targumim no fewer than seventy-one Biblical passages are rendered with
   explicit reference to Him.

   If we now turn to the views expressed by Philo about the Logos we find
   that they are hesitating, and even contradictory. One thing, however,
   is plain: the Logos of Philo is not the Memra of the Targumim. For, the
   expression Memra ultimately rests on theological, that of Logos on
   philosophical grounds. Again, the Logos of Philo approximates more
   closely to the Metatron of the Talmud and Kabbalah. As they speak of
   him as the Prince of the Face,' who bore the name of his Lord, so Philo
   represents the Logos as the eldest Angel,' the many-named Archangel,'
   in accordance with the Jewish view that the name JeHoVaH unfolded its
   meaning in seventy names for the Godhead. [210] As they speak of the
   Adam Qadmon,' so Philo of the Logos as the human reflection of the
   eternal God. And in both these respects, it is worthy of notice that he
   appeals to ancient teaching. [211]

   What, then, is the Logos of Philo? Not a concrete personality, and yet,
   from another point of view, not strictly impersonal, nor merely a
   property of the Deity, but the shadow, as it were, which the light of
   God casts - and if Himself light, only the manifested reflection of
   God, His spiritual, even as the world is His material, habitation.
   Moreover, the Logos is the image of God' (ekn) upon which man was made,
   [212] or, to use the platonic term, the archetypal idea.' As regards
   the relation between the Logos and the two fundamental Potencies (from
   which all others issue), the latter are variously represented - on the
   one hand, as proceeding from the Logos; and on the other, as themselves
   constituting the Logos. As regards the world, the Logos is its real
   being. He is also its archetype; moreover the instrument (rganon)
   through Whom God created all things. If the Logos separates between God
   and the world, it is rather as intermediary; He separates, but He also
   unites. But chiefly does this hold true as regards the relation between
   God and man. The Logos announces and interprets to man the will and
   mind of God (rmenes ka prophtes); He acts as mediator; He is the real
   High-Priest, and as such by His purity takes away the sins of man, and
   by His intercession procures for us the mercy of God. Hence Philo
   designates Him not only as the High-Priest, but as the Paraclete.' He
   is also the sun whose rays enlighten man, the medium of Divine
   revelation to the soul; the Manna, or support of spiritual life; He Who
   dwells in the soul. And so the Logos is, in the fullest sense,
   Melchisedek, the priest of the most high God, the king of righteousness
   (basiles dkaios), and the king of Salem (basiles ernes), Who brings
   righteousness and peace to the soul. [213] But the Logos does not come
   into any soul that is dead in sin.' That there is close similarity of
   form between these Alexandrian views and much in the argumentation of
   the Epistle to the Hebrews, must be evident to all - no less than that
   there is the widest possible divergence in substance and spirit. [214]
   The Logos of Philo is shadowy, unreal, not a Person; [215] there is no
   need of an atonement; the High-Priest intercedes, but has no sacrifice
   to offer as the basis of His intercession, least of all that of
   Himself; the old Testament types are only typical ideas, not typical
   facts; they point to a Prototypal Idea in the eternal past, not to an
   Antitypal Person and Fact in history; there is no cleansing of the soul
   by blood, no sprinkling of the Mercy Seat, no access for all through
   the rent veil into the immediate Presence of God; nor yet a quickening
   of the soul from dead works to serve the living God. If the
   argumentation of the Epistle to the Hebrews is Alexandrian, it is an
   Alexandrianism which is overcome and past, which only furnishes the
   form, not the substance, the vessel, not its contents. The closer
   therefore the outward similarity, the greater is the contrast in
   substance.

   The vast difference between Alexandrianism and the New Testament will
   appear still more clearly in the views of Philo on Cosmology and
   Anthropology. In regard to the former, his results in some respects run
   parallel to those of the students of mysticism in the Talmud, and of
   the Kabbalists. Together with the Stoic view, which represented God as
   the active cause' of this world, and matter as the passive,' Philo
   holds the Platonic idea, that matter was something existent, and that
   is resisted God. [216] Such speculations must have been current among
   the Jews long before, to judge by certain warning given by the Son of
   Sirach. [217] [218] And Stoic views of the origin of the world seem
   implied even in the Book of the Wisdom of Solomon (i. 7; vii. 24; viii.
   1; xii. 1). [219] The mystics in the Talmud arrived at similar
   conclusions, not through Greek, but through Persian teaching. Their
   speculations [220] boldly entered on the dangerous ground, [221]
   forbidden to the many, scarcely allowed to the few, [222] where such
   deep questions as the origin of our world and its connection with God
   were discussed. It was, perhaps, only a beautiful poetic figure that
   God had taken of the dust under the throne of His glory, and cast it
   upon the waters, which thus became earth. [223] But so far did isolated
   teachers become intoxicated [224] by the new wine of these strange
   speculations, that they whispered it to one another that water was the
   original element of the world, [225] which had successively been
   hardened into snow and then into earth. [226] [227] Other and later
   teachers fixed upon the air or the fire as the original element,
   arguing the pre-existence of matter from the use of the word made' in
   Gen. i. 7. instead of created.' Some modified this view, and suggested
   that God had originally created the three elements of water, air or
   spirit, and fire, from which all else was developed. [228] Traces also
   occur of the doctrine of the pre-existence of things, in a sense
   similar to that of Plato. [229]

   Like Plato and the Stoics, Philo regarded matter as devoid of all
   quality, and even form. Matter in itself was dead - more than that, it
   was evil. This matter, which was already existing, God formed (not
   made), like an architect who uses his materials according to a
   pre-existing plan - which in this case was the archetypal world.

   This was creation, or rather formation, brought about not by God
   Himself, but by the Potencies, especially by the Logos, Who was the
   connecting bond of all. As for God, His only direct work was the soul,
   and that only of the good, not of the evil. Man's immaterial part had a
   twofold aspect: earthwards, as Sensuousness (asthesis); and
   heavenwards, as Reason (nos). The sensuous part of the soul was
   connected with the body. It had no heavenly past, and would have no
   future. But Reason' (nos) was that breath of true life which God had
   breathed into man (pnema) whereby the earthy became the higher, living
   spirit, with its various faculties. Before time began the soul was
   without body, an archetype, the heavenly man,' pure spirit in Paradise
   (virtue), yet even so longing after its ultimate archetype, God. Some
   of these pure spirits descended into bodies and so lost their purity.
   Or else, the union was brought about by God and by powers lower than
   God (dæmons, demiourgo). To the latter is due our earthly part. God
   breathed on the formation, and the earthly Reason' became intelligent'
   spiritual' soul (psuch noer). Our earthly part alone is the seat of
   sin. [230]

   This leads us to the great question of Original Sin. Here the views of
   Philo are those of the Eastern Rabbis. But both are entirely different
   from those on which the argument in the Epistle to the Romans turns. It
   was neither at the feet of Gamaliel, nor yet from Jewish Hellenism,
   that Saul of Tarsus learned the doctrine of original sin. The statement
   that as in Adam all spiritually died, so in Messiah all should be made
   alive, [231] finds absolutely no parallel in Jewish writings. [232]
   What may be called the starting point of Christian theology, the
   doctrine of hereditary guilt and sin, through the fall of Adam, and of
   the consequent entire and helplesss corruption of our nature, is
   entirely unknown to Rabbinical Judaism. The reign of physical death was
   indeed traced to the sin of our first parents. [233] But the Talmud
   expressly teaches, [234] that God originally created man with two
   propensities, [235] one to good and one to evil (Yetser tobh, and
   Yetser hara [236] ). The evil impulse began immediately after birth.
   [237] [238] But it was within the power of man to vanquish sin, and to
   attain perfect righteousness; in fact, this stage had actually been
   attained. [239]

   Similarly, Philo regarded the soul of the child as naked' (Adam and
   Eve), a sort of tabula rasa, as wax which God would fain form and
   mould. But this state ceased when affection' presented itself to
   reason, and thus sensuous lust arose, which was the spring of all sin.
   The grand task, then, was to get rid of the sensuous, and to rise to
   the spiritual. In this, the ethical part of his system, Philo was most
   under the influence of Stoic philosophy. We might almost say, it is no
   longer the Hebrew who Hellenises, but the Hellene who Hebraises. And
   yet it is here also that the most ingenious and wide reaching
   allegorisms of Scripture are introduced. It is scarcely possible to
   convey an idea of how brilliant this method becomes in the hands of
   Philo, how universal its application, or how captivating it must have
   proved. Philo describes man's state as, first one of sensuousness, but
   also of unrest, misery and unsatisfied longing. If persisted in, it
   would end in complete spiritual insensibility. [240] But from this
   state the soul must pass to one of devotion to reason. [241] This
   change might be accomplished in one of three ways: first, by study - of
   which physical was the lowest; next, that which embraced the ordinary
   circle of knowledge; and lastly, the highest, that of Divine
   philosophy. The second method was Askesis: discipline, or practice,
   when the soul turned from the lower to the higher. But the best of all
   was the third way: the free unfolding of that spiritual life which
   cometh neither from study nor discipline, but from a natural good
   disposition. And in that state the soul had true rest [242] and joy.
   [243]

   Here we must for the present pause. [244] Brief as this sketch of
   Hellenism has been, it must have brought the question vividly before
   the mind, whether and how far certain parts of the New Testament,
   especially the fourth Gospel, [245] are connected with the direction of
   thought described in the preceding pages. Without yielding to that
   school of critics, whose perverse ingenuity discerns everywhere a
   sinister motive or tendency in the Evangelic writers, [246] it is
   evident that each of them had a special object in view in constructing
   his narrative of the One Life; and primarily addressed himself to a
   special audience. If, without entering into elaborate discussion, we
   might, according to St. Luke i. 2, regard the narrative of St. Mark as
   the grand representative of that authentic narration' (digesis), though
   not by Apostles, [247] which was in circulation, and the Gospel by St.
   Matthew as representing the tradition' handed down (the pardosis), by
   the Apostolic eye-witnesses and ministers of the Word, [248] we should
   reach the following results. Our oldest Gospel-narrative is that by St.
   Mark, which, addressing itself to no class in particular, sketches in
   rapid outlines the picture of Jesus as the Messiah, alike for all men.
   Next in order of time comes our present Gospel by St. Matthew. It goes
   a step further back than that by St. Mark, and gives not only the
   genealogy, but the history of the miraculous birth of Jesus. Even if we
   had not the consensus of tradition every one must feel that this Gospel
   is Hebrew in its cast, in its citations from the Old Testament, and in
   its whole bearing. Taking its key-note from the Book of Daniel, that
   grand Messianic text-book of Eastern Judaism at the time, and as
   re-echoed in the Book of Enoch - which expresses the popular
   apprehension of Daniel's Messianic idea - it presents the Messiah
   chiefly as the Son of Man,' the Son of David,' the Son of God.' We have
   here the fulfilment of Old Testament law and prophecy; the realisation
   of Old Testament life, faith, and hope. Third in point of time is the
   Gospel by St. Luke, which, passing back another step, gives us not only
   the history of the birth of Jesus, but also that of John, the preparer
   of the way.' It is Pauline, and addresses itself, or rather, we should
   say, presents the Person of the Messiah, it may be to the Jew first,'
   but certainly also to the Greek.' The term which St. Luke, alone of all
   Gospel writers, [249] applies to Jesus, is that of the pas or servant'
   of God, in the sense in which Isaiah has spoken of the Messiah as the
   Ebhed Jehovah,' servant of the Lord.' St. Luke's is, so to speak, the
   Isaiah-Gospel, presenting the Christ in His bearing on the history of
   God's Kingdom and of the world - as God's Elect Servant in Whom He
   delighted. In the Old Testament, to adopt a beautiful figure, [250] the
   idea of the Servant of the Lord is set before us like a pyramid: at its
   base it is all Israel, at its central section Israel after the Spirit
   (the circumcised in heart), represented by David, the man after God's
   own heart; while at its apex it is the Elect' Servant, the Messiah.
   [251] And these three ideas, with their sequences, are presented in the
   third Gospel as centring in Jesus the Messiah. By the side of this
   pyramid is the other: the Son of Man, the Son of David, the Son of God.
   The Servant of the Lord of Isaiah and of Luke is the Enlightener, the
   Consoler, the victorious Deliverer; the Messiah or Anointed: the
   Prophet, the Priest, the King.

   Yet another tendency - shall we say, want? - remained, so to speak,
   unmet and unsatisfied. That large world of latest and most promising
   Jewish thought, whose task it seemed to bridge over the chasm between
   heathenism and Judaism - the Western Jewish world, must have the Christ
   presented to them. For in every direction is He the Christ. And not
   only they, but that larger Greek world, so far as Jewish Hellenism
   could bring it to the threshold of the Church. This Hellenistic and
   Hellenic world now stood in waiting to enter it, though as it were by
   its northern porch, and to be baptized at its font. All this must have
   forced itself on the mind of St. John, residing in the midst of them at
   Ephesus, even as St. Paul's Epistles contain almost as many allusions
   to Hellenism as to Rabbinism. [252] And so the fourth Gospel became,
   not the supplement, but the complement, of the other three. [253] There
   is no other Gospel more Palestinian than this in its modes of
   expression, allusions, and references. Yet we must all feel how
   thoroughly Hellenistic it also is in its cast, [254] in what it reports
   and what it omits - in short, in its whole aim; how adapted to
   Hellenist wants its presentation of deep central truths; how suitably,
   in the report of His Discourses - even so far as their form is
   concerned - the promise was here fulfilled, of bringing all things to
   remembrance whatsoever He had said. [255] It is the true Light which
   shineth, of which the full meridian-blaze lies on the Hellenist and
   Hellenic world. There is Alexandrian form of thought not only in the
   whole conception, but in the Logos, [256] and in His presentation as
   the Light, the Life, the Wellspring of the world. [257] But these forms
   are filled in the fourth Gospel with quite other substance. God is not
   afar off, uncognisable by man, without properties, without name. He is
   the Father. Instead of a nebulous reflection of the Deity we have the
   Person of the Logos; not a Logos with the two potencies of goodness and
   power, but full of grace and truth. The Gospel of St. John also begins
   with a Bereshith' - but it is the theological, not the cosmic
   Bereshith, when the Logos was with God and was God. Matter is not
   pre-existent; far less is it evil. St. John strikes the pen through
   Alexandrianism when he lays it down as the fundamental fact of New
   Testament history that the Logos was made flesh,' just as St. Paul does
   when he proclaims the great mystery of God manifest in the flesh.' Best
   of all, it is not by a long course of study, nor by wearing discipline,
   least of all by an inborn good disposition, that the soul attains the
   new life, but by a birth from above, by the Holy Ghost, and by simple
   faith which is brought within reach of the fallen and the lost. [258]

   Philo had no successor. In him Hellenism had completed its cycle. Its
   message and its mission were ended. Henceforth it needed, like Apollos,
   its great representative in the Christian Church, two things: the
   baptism of John to the knowledge of sin and need, and to have the way
   of God more perfectly expounded. [259] On the other hand, Eastern
   Judaism had entered with Hillel on a new stage. This direction led
   farther and farther away from that which the New Testament had taken in
   following up and unfolding the spiritual elements of the Old. That
   development was incapable of transformation or renovation. It must go
   on to its final completion, and be either true, or else be swept away
   and destroyed.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [173] Hausrath (N.T. Zeitg. vol. ii. p. 222 &c.) has given a highly
   imaginative picture of Philo- as, indeed, of many other persons and
   things.

   [174] 39 or 40 a.d.

   [175] Siegfried has, with immense labor, collected a vast number of
   parallel expressions, chiefly from Plato and Plutarch (pp. 39-47).

   [176] Comp. Grossmann, Quæ st. Phil. i. p. 5 &c.

   [177] In this sketch of the system of Philo I have largely availed
   myself of the careful analysis of Siegfried.

   [178] It should be noted that these are also Talmudical canons, not
   indeed for allegorical interpretation, but as pointing to some special
   meaning, since there was not a word or particle in Scripture without a
   definite meaning and object.

   [179] Baba K 64 a.

   [180] To illustrate what use might be made of such alterations, the
   Midrash (Ber. R. 65) would have us punctuate Gen. xxvii. 19, as
   follows: And Jacob said unto his father, I (viz. am he who will receive
   the ten commandments) - (but) Esau (is) thy firstborn.' In Yalkut there
   is the still more curious explanation that in heaven the soul of Jacob
   was the firstborn!

   [181] Each of these positions is capable of ample proof from Philo's
   writings, as shown by Siegfried. But only a bare statement of these
   canons was here possible.

   [182] Comp. our above outline with the XXV. theses de modis et formulis
   quibus pr. Hebr. doctores SS. interpretari etc. soliti fuerunt,' in
   Surenhusius, Bblos katallags, pp. 57-88.

   [183] For a comparison between Philo and Rabbinic theology, see
   Appendix II.: Philo and Rabbinic Theology.' Freudenthal (Hellen.
   Studien, pp. 67 &c.) aptly designates this mixture of the two as
   Hellenistic Midrash,' it being difficult sometimes to distinguish
   whether it originated in Palestine or in Egypt, or else in both
   independently. Freudenthal gives a number of curious instances in which
   Hellenism and Rabbinism agree in their interpretations. For other
   interesting comparisons between Haggadic interpretations and those of
   Philo, see Joel, Blick in d. Religionsgesch. i. p. 38 &c.

   [184] Ber. 31 b.

   [185] Ber. R. 31.

   [186] Ber. R. 70.

   [187] Thus, to give only a few out of many examples, Ruth is derived
   from ravah, to satiate to give to drink, because David, her descendant,
   satiated God with his Psalms of praise (Ber. 7 b). Here the principle
   of the significance of Bible names is deduced from Ps. xlvi. 8 (9 in
   the Hebrew): Come, behold the works of the Lord, who hath made names on
   earth,' the word desolations,' shamoth, being altered to shemoth,
   names.' In general, that section, from Ber. 3 b, to the end of 8 a, is
   full of Haggadic Scripture interpretations. On fol. 4 a there is the
   curious symbolical derivation of Mephibosheth, who is supposed to have
   set David right on halakhic questions, as Mippi bosheth: from my mouth
   shaming,' because he put to shame the face of David in the Halakhah.'
   Similarly in Siphré (Par. Behaalothekha, ed. Friedmann, p. 20 a) we
   have very beautiful and ingenious interpretations of the names Reuel,
   Hobab and Jethro.

   [188] It would be impossible here to give the references, which would
   occupy too much space.

   [189] For want of handier material I must take leave to refer to my
   brief sketch of the Kabbalah in the History of the Jewish Nation,' pp.
   434-446.

   [190] Chag. ii. 1.

   [191] Ab. v. 4.

   [192] In short, the lgos spermatiks of the Stoics.

   [193] Supposed to mean either numerationes, or splendour. But why not
   derive the word from sphara? The ten are: Crown, Wisdom, Intelligence,
   Mercy, Judgment, Beauty, Triumph, Praise, Foundation, Kingdom.

   [194] For the teaching of Eastern Judaism in this respect, see Appendix
   II.: Philo and Rabbinic Theology.'

   [195] A very interesting question arises: how far Philo was acquainted
   with, and influenced by, the Jewish traditional law or the Halakhah.
   This has been treated by Dr. B. Ritter in an able tractate (Philo u.
   die Halach.), although he attributes more to Philo than the evidence
   seems to admit.

   [196] Jer. Ber. ix. 7.

   [197] At the same time there is a remarkable difference here between
   Philo and Rabbinism. Philo holds that the creation of the world was
   brought about by the Potencies, but the Law was given directly through
   Moses, and not by the mediation of angels. But this latter was
   certainly the view generally entertained in Palestine as expressed in
   the LXX. rendering of Deut. xxxii. 2, in the Targumim on that passage,
   and more fully still in Jos. Ant. xv. 5. 3, in the Midrashim and in the
   Talmud, where we are told (Macc. 24 a) that only the opening words, I
   am the Lord thy God, thou shalt have no other gods but Me,' were spoken
   by God Himself. Comp. also Acts vii. 38, 53; Gal. iii. 19; Heb. ii. 2.

   [198] Hammejuchad, appropriatum;' hammephorash, expositum,' separatum,'
   the tetragrammaton,' or four-lettered name, {hebrew}. There was also a
   Shem with twelve,' and one with forty-two' letters (Kidd. 71a).

   [199] Or Ruach ham Maqom, Ab. iii. 10, and frequently in the Talmud.

   [200] Levy (Neuhebr. Wörterb. i. p. 374 a.) seems to imply that in the
   Midrash the term dibbur occupies the same place and meaning. But with
   all deference I cannot agree with this opinion, nor do the passages
   quoted bear it out.

   [201] The word,' as spoken, is distinguished from the Word' as
   speaking, or revealing Himself. The former is generally designated by
   the term pithgama.' Thus in Gen. XV. 1, After these words (things) came
   the "pithgama" of Jehovah to Abram in prophecy, saying, Fear not,
   Abram, My "Memra" shall be thy strength, and thy very great reward.'
   Still, the term Memra, as applied not only to man, but also in
   reference to God, is not always the equivalent of the Logos.'

   [202] The various passages in the Targum of Onkelos, the Jerusalem, and
   the Pseudo-Jonathan Targum on the Pentateuch will be found enumerated
   and classified, as those in which it is a doubtful, a fair, or an
   unquestionable inference, that the word Memra is intended for God
   revealing Himself, in Appendix II.: Philo and Rabbinic Theology.'

   [203] As, for example, Gen. xxviii. 21, the Memra of Jehovah shall be
   my God.'

   [204] As, for example, Num. xxiii. 21, the Memra of Jehovah their God
   is their helper, and the Shekhinah of their King is in the midst of
   them.'

   [205] That term is often used by Onkelos. Besides, the expression
   itself is the Memra of Jehovah.'

   [206] Onkelos only once (in Ex. iv. 24) paraphrases Jehovah by
   Malakha.'

   [207] Metatron, either = met thrnon, or met trannon. In the Talmud it
   is applied to the Angel of Jehovah (Ex. xxiii. 20), the Prince of the
   World,' the Prince of the Face' or of the Presence,' as they call him;
   he who sits in the innermost chamber before God, while the other angels
   only hear His commands from behind the veil (Chag. 15 a; 16 a; Toseft.
   ad Chull. 60 a; Jeb. 16 b). This Metatron of the Talmud and the
   Kabbalah is also the Adam Qadmon, or archetypal man.

   [208] Of deep interest is Onkelos' rendering of Deut. xxxiii. 27,
   where, instead of underneath are the everlasting arms,' Onkelos has,
   and by His Memra was the world created,' exactly as in St John i. 10.
   Now this divergence of Onkelos from the Hebrew text seems
   unaccountable. Winer, whose inaugural dissertation, De Onkeloso ejusque
   paraph. Chald.' Lips. 1820, most modern writers have followed (with
   amplifications, chiefly from Luzzato's Philoxenus), makes no reference
   to this passage, nor do his successors, so far as I know. It is curious
   that, as our present Hebrew text of this verse consists of three words,
   so does the rendering of Onkelos, and that both end with the same word.
   Is the rendering of Onkelos then a paraphrase, or does it represent
   another reading? Another interesting passage is Deut. viii. 3. Its
   quotation by Christ in St. Matt. iv. 4 is deeply interesting, as read
   in the light of the rendering of Onkelos, Not by bread alone is man
   sustained, but by every forthcoming Memra from before Jehovah shall man
   live.' Yet another rendering of Onkelos is significantly illustrative
   of 1 Cor. x. 1-4. He renders Deut. xxxiii. 3 with power He brought them
   out of Egypt; they were led under thy cloud; they journeyed according
   to (by) thy Memra.' Does this represent a difference in Hebrew from the
   admittedly difficult text in our present Bible? Winer refers to it as
   an instance in which Onkelos suopte ingenio et copiose admodum
   eloquitur vatum divinorum mentem,' adding, ita ut de his, quas singulis
   vocibus inesse crediderit, significationibus non possit recte
   judicari;' and Winer's successors say much the same. But this is to
   state, not to explain, the difficulty. In general, we may here be
   allowed to say that the question of the Targumim has scarcely received
   as yet sufficient treatment. Mr. Deutsch's Article in Smith's
   Dictionary of the Bible' (since reprinted in his Remains') is, though
   brilliantly written, unsatisfactory. Dr. Davidson (in Kitto's Cyclop.,
   vol. iii. pp. 948-966) is, as always, careful, laborious, and learned.
   Dr. Volck's article (in Herzog's Real-Encykl., vol. xv. pp. 672-683) is
   without much intrinsic value, though painstaking. We mention these
   articles, besides the treatment of the subject in the Introduction to
   the Old Testament (Keil, De Wette-Schrader, Bleek-kamphausen, Reuss),
   and the works of Zunz, Geiger, Noldeke, and others, to whom partial
   reference has already been made. Frankel's interesting and learned book
   (Zu dem Targum der Propheten) deals almost exclusively with the Targum
   Jonathan, on which it was impossible to enter within our limits. As
   modern brochures of interest the following three may be mentioned:
   Maybaum, Anthropomorphien bei Onkelos; Grönemann, Die Jonath. Pentat.
   Uebers. im Verhaltn. z. Halacha; and Singer, Onkelos im Verhaltn. z.
   Halacha.

   [209] Gen. xlix. 10, 11; Num. xxiv. 17.

   [210] See the enumeration of these 70 Names in the Baal-ha-Turim on
   Numb. xi. 16.

   [211] Comp. Siegfried, u. s., pp. 221-223.

   [212] Gen. i. 27.

   [213] De Leg. Alleg. iii. 25, 26.

   [214] For a full discussion of this similarity of form and divergence
   of spirit, between Philo - or, rather, between Alexandrianism - and the
   Epistle to the Hebrews, the reader is referred to the masterly treatise
   by Riehm (Der Lehrbegriff d. Hebräerbr. ed. 1867, especially pp.
   247-268, 411-424, 658-670, and 855-860). The author's general view on
   the subject is well and convincingly formulated on p. 249. We must,
   however, add, in opposition to Riehm, that, by his own showing the
   writer of the Epistle to the Hebrews displays few traces of a
   Palestinian training.

   [215] On the subject of Philo's Logos generally the brochure of Harnoch
   (Königsberg, 1879) deserves perusal, although it does not furnish much
   that is new. In general, the student of Philo ought especially to study
   the sketch by Zeller in his Philosophie der Gr. vol. iii. pt. ii. 3rd
   ed. pp. 338-418.

   [216] With singular and characteristic inconsistency, Philo, however,
   ascribes also to God the creation of matter (de Somn. i. 13).

   [217] As for example Ecclus. iii. 21-24.

   [218] So the Talmudists certainly understood it, Jer. Chag. ii. 1.

   [219] Comp. Grimm, Exeg. Handb. zu d. Apokr., Lief. vi. pp. 55, 56.

   [220] They were arranged into those concerning the Maasey Bereshith
   (Creation), and the Maasey Merkabbah, the chariot' of Ezekiel's vision
   (Providence in the widest sense, or God's manifestation in the created
   world).

   [221] Of the four celebrities who entered the Pardes,' or enclosed
   Paradise of theosophic speculation, one became an apostate, another
   died, a third went wrong (Ben Soma), and only Akiba escaped unscathed,
   according to the Scripture saying, Draw me, and we will run' (Chag. 14
   b).

   [222] 'It is not lawful to enter upon the Maasey Bereshith in presence
   of two, nor upon the Merkabhah in presence of one, unless he be a
   "sage," and understands of his own knowledge. Any one who ratiocinates
   on these four things, it were better for him that he had not been born:
   What is above and what is below; what was afore, and what shall be
   hereafter.' (Chag. ii. 1).

   [223] Shem. R. 13.

   [224] Ben Soma went astray (mentally): he shook the (Jewish) world.'

   [225] That criticism, which one would designate as impertinent, which
   would find this view in 2 Peter iii. 5, is, alas! not confined to
   Jewish writers, but hazarded even by De Wette.

   [226] Jer. Chag. 77 a.

   [227] Judah bar Pazi, in the second century. Ben Soma lived in the
   first century of our era.

   [228] According to the Jerusalem Talmud (Ber. i. I) the firmament was
   at first soft, and only gradually became hard. According to Ber. R. 10,
   God created the world from a mixture of fire and snow, other Rabbis
   suggesting four original elements, according to the quarters of the
   globe, or else six, adding to them that which is above and that which
   is below. A very curious idea is that of R. Joshua ben Levi, according
   to which all the works of creation were really finished on the first
   day, and only, as it were, extended on the other days. This also
   represents really a doubt of the Biblical account of creation. Strange
   though it may sound, the doctrine of development was derived from the
   words (Gen. ii. 4). These are the generations of heaven and earth when
   they were created, in the day when Jahveh Elohim made earth and
   heavens.' It was argued, that the expression implied, they were
   developed from the day in which they had been created. Others seem to
   have held, that the three principal things that were created - earth,
   heaven, and water - remained, each for three days, at the end of which
   they respectively developed what is connected with them (Ber. R. 12).

   [229] Ber. R. i.

   [230] For further notices on the Cosmology and Anthropology of Philo,
   see Appendix II.: Philo and Rabbinic Theology.'

   [231] We cannot help quoting the beautiful Haggadic explanation of the
   name Adam, according to its three letters, A, D, M - as including these
   three names, Adam, David, Messiah.

   [232] Raymundus Martini, in his Pugio Fidei' (orig. ed. p. 675; ed.
   Voisin et Carpzov, pp. 866, 867), quotes from the book Siphré: Go and
   learn the merit of Messiah the King, and the reward of the righteous
   from the first Adam, on whom was laid only one commandment of a
   prohibitive character, and he transgressed it. See how many deaths were
   appointed on him, and on his generations, and on the generations of his
   generations to the end of all generations. (Wünsche, Leiden d. Mess. p.
   65, makes here an unwarrantable addition, in his translation.) But
   which attribute (measuring?) is the greater - the attribute of goodness
   or the attribute of punishment (retribution)? He answered, the
   attribute of goodness is the greater, and the attribute of punishment
   the less. And Messiah the King, who was chastened and suffered for the
   transgressors, as it is said, "He was wounded for our transgressions,"
   and so on, how much more shall He justify (make righteous, by His
   merit) all generations; and this is what is meant when it is written,
   "And Jehovah made to meet upon Him the sin of us all."' We have
   rendered this passage as literally as possible, but we are bound to add
   that it is not found in any now existing copy of Siphré.

   [233] Death is not considered an absolute evil. In short, all the
   various consequences which Rabbinical writings ascribe to the sin of
   Adam may be designated either as physical, or, if mental, as amounting
   only to detriment, loss, or imperfectness. These results had been
   partially counteracted by Abraham, and would be fully removed by the
   Messiah. Neither Enoch nor Elijah had sinned, and accordingly they did
   not die. Comp. generally, Hamburger, Geist d. Agada, pp. 81-84, and in
   regard to death as connected with Adam, p. 85.

   [234] Ber. 61 a.

   [235] These are also hypostatised as Angels. Comp. Levy, Chald.
   Wörterb. p. 342 a; Neuhebr. Wörterb. p. 259, a, b.

   [236] Or with two reins,' the one, advising to good, being at his
   right, the other, counselling evil, at his left, according to Eccles.
   x. 2 (Ber. 61 a, towards the end of the page).

   [237] Sanh. 91 b.

   [238] In a sense its existence was necessary for the continuance of
   this world. The conflict between these two impulses constituted the
   moral life of man.

   [239] The solitary exception here is 4 Esdras, where the Christian
   doctrine of original sin is most strongly expressed, being evidently
   derived from New Testament teaching. Comp. especially 4 Esdras (our
   Apocryphal 2 Esdras) vii. 46-53, and other passages. Wherein the hope
   of safety lay, appears in ch. ix.

   [240] Symbolised by Lot's wife.

   [241] Symbolised by Ebher, Hebrew.

   [242] The Sabbath, Jerusalem.

   [243] For further details on these points see Appendix II.: Philo and
   Rabbinic Theology.'

   [244] The views of Philo on the Messiah will be presented in another
   connection.

   [245] This is not the place to enter on the question of the
   composition, date, and authorship of the four Gospels. But as regards
   the point on which negative criticism has of late spoken strongest, and
   on which, indeed (as Weiss rightly remarks) the very existence of the
   Tübingen School' depends - that of the Johannine authorship of the
   fourth Gospel, I would refer to Weiss, Leben Jesu (1882: vol. i. pp.
   84-139), and to Dr. Salmon's Introd. to the New Test. pp. 266-365.

   [246] No one not acquainted with this literature can imagine the
   character of the arguments sometimes used by a certain class of
   critics. To say that they proceed on the most forced perversion of the
   natural and obvious meaning of passages, is but little. But one cannot
   restrain moral indignation on finding that to Evangelists and Apostles
   is imputed, on such grounds, not only systematic falsehood, but
   falsehood with the most sinister motives.

   [247] I do not, of course, mean that the narration of St. Mark was not
   itself derived chiefly from Apostolic preaching, especially that of St.
   Peter. In general, the question of the authorship and source of the
   various Gospels must be reserved for separate treatment in another
   place.

   [248] Comp. Mangold's ed. of Bleek, Einl. in d. N.T. (3te Aufl. 1875),
   p. 346.

   [249] With the sole exception of St. Matt. xii. 18, where the
   expression is a quotation from the LXX. of Is. xlii. 1.

   [250] First expressed by Delitzsch (Bibl. Comm. ü. d. Proph. Jes. p.
   414), and then adopted by Oehler (Theol.  d. A. Test. vol. ii. pp.
   270-272).

   [251] The two fundamental principles in the history of the Kingdom of
   God are selection and development. It is surely remarkable, not
   strange, that these are also the two fundamental truths in the history
   of that other Kingdom of God, Nature, if modern science has read them
   correctly. These two substantives would mark the facts as ascertained;
   the adjectives, which are added to them by a certain class of students,
   mark only their inferences from these facts. These facts may be true,
   even if as yet incomplete, although the inferences may be false.
   Theology should not here rashly interfere. But whatever the ultimate
   result, these two are certainly the fundamental facts in the history of
   the Kingdom of God, and, marking them as such, the devout philosopher
   may rest contented.

   [252] The Gnostics, to whom, in the opinion of many, so frequent
   references are made in the writings of St. John and St. Paul, were only
   an offspring (rather, as the Germans would term it, an Abart) of
   Alexandrianism on the one hand, and on the other of Eastern notions,
   which are so largely embodied in the later Kabbalah.

   [253] A complement, not a supplement, as many critics put it (Ewald,
   Weizsäcker, and even Hengstenberg) - least of all a rectification
   (Godet, Evang. Joh. p. 633).

   [254] Keim (Leben Jesu von Nazara, i. a, pp. 112-114) fully recognises
   this; but I entirely differ from the conclusions of his analytical
   comparison of Philo with the fourth Gospel.

   [255] St. John xiv. 26

   [256] The student who has carefully considered the views expressed by
   Philo about the Logos, and analysed, as in the Appendix, the passages
   in the Targumim in which the word Memra occurs, cannot fail to perceive
   the immense difference in the presentation of the Logos by St. John.
   Yet M. Renan, in an article in the Contemporary Review' for September
   1877, with utter disregard of the historical evidence on the question,
   maintains not only the identity of these three sets of ideas, but
   actually grounds on it his argument against the authenticity of the
   fourth Gospel. Considering the importance of the subject, it is not
   easy to speak with moderation of assertions so bold based on statements
   so entirely inaccurate.

   [257] Dr. Bucher, whose book, Des Apostels Johannes Lehre vom Logos,
   deserves careful perusal, tries to trace the reason of these
   peculiarities as indicated in the Prologue of the fourth Gospel. Bucher
   differentiates at great length between the Logos of Philo and of the
   fourth Gospel. He sums up his views by stating that in the Prologue of
   St. John the Logos is presented as the fulness of Divine Light and
   Life. This is, so to speak, the theme, while the Gospel history is
   intended to present the Logos as the giver of this Divine Light and
   Life. While the other Evangelists ascend from the manifestation to the
   idea of the Son of God, St. John descends from the idea of the Logos,
   as expressed in the Prologue, to its concrete realisation in His
   history. The latest tractate (at the present writing, 1882) on the
   Gospel of St. John, by Dr. Müller, Die Johann. Frage, gives a good
   summary of the argument on both sides, and deserves the careful
   attention of students of the question.

   [258] I cannot agree with Weiss (u. s., p. 122) that the great object
   of the fourth Gospel was to oppose the rising Gnostic movement, This
   may have been present to the Apostle's mind, as evidenced in his
   Epistle, but the object in view could not have been mainly, nor even
   primarily, negative and controversial.

   [259] Acts xviii 24-28
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER V.
ALEXANDRIA AND ROME - THE JEWISH COMMUNITIES IN THE CAPITALS OF WESTERN
CIVILISATION.

   We have spoken of Alexandria as the capital of the Jewish world in the
   West. Antioch was, indeed, nearer to Palestine, and its Jewish
   population - including the floating part of it - as numerous as that of
   Alexandria. But the wealth, the thought, and the influence of Western
   Judaism centred in the modern capital of the land of the Pharaohs. In
   those days Greece was the land of the past, to which the student might
   resort as the home of beauty and of art, the time hallowed temple of
   thought and of poetry. But it was also the land of desolateness and of
   ruins, where fields of corn waved over the remains of classic
   antiquity. The ancient Greeks had in great measure sunk to a nation of
   traders, in keen competition with the Jews. Indeed, Roman sway had
   levelled the ancient world, and buried its national characteristics. It
   was otherwise in the far East; it was otherwise also in Egypt. Egypt
   was not a land to be largely inhabited, or to be civilised' in the then
   sense of the term: soil, climate, history, nature forbade it. Still, as
   now, and even more than now, was it the dream-land of untold
   attractions to the traveller. The ancient, mysterious Nile still rolled
   its healing waters out into the blue sea, where (so it was supposed)
   they changed its taste within a radius farther than the eye could
   reach. To be gently borne in bark or ship on its waters, to watch the
   strange vegetation and fauna of its banks; to gaze beyond, where they
   merged into the trackless desert; to wander under the shade of its
   gigantic monuments, or within the wierd avenues of its colossal
   temples, to see the scroll of mysterious hieroglyphics; to note the
   sameness of manner and of people as of old, and to watch the unique
   rites of its ancient religion - this was indeed to be again in the old
   far-away world, and that amidst a dreaminess bewitching the senses, and
   a gorgeousness dazzling the imagination. [260]

   We are still far out at sea, making for the port of Alexandria - the
   only safe shelter all along the coast of Asia and Africa. Quite thirty
   miles out the silver sheen of the lighthouse on the island of Pharos
   [261] - connected by a mole with Alexandria - is burning like a star on
   the edge of the horizon. Now we catch sight of the palmgroves of
   Pharos; presently the anchor rattles and grates on the sand, and we are
   ashore. What crowd of vessels of all sizes, shapes and nationalities;
   what a multitude of busy people; what a very Babel of languages; what a
   commingling of old and new world civilisation; and what a variety of
   wares piled up, loading or unloading!

   Alexandria itself was not an old Egyptian, but a comparatively modern,
   city; in Egypt and yet not of Egypt. Everything was in character - the
   city, its inhabitants, public life, art, literature, study, amusements,
   the very aspect of the place. Nothing original anywhere, but
   combination of all that had been in the ancient world, or that was at
   the time - most fitting place therefore to be the capital of Jewish
   Hellenism.

   As its name indicates, the city was founded by Alexander the Great. It
   was built in the form of an open fan, or rather, of the outspread cloak
   of a Macedonian horseman. Altogether, it measured (16,360 paces) 3,160
   paces more than Rome; but its houses were neither so crowded nor so
   many-storied. It had been a large city when Rome was still
   inconsiderable, and to the last held the second place in the Empire.
   One of the five quarters into which the city was divided, and which
   were named according to the first letters of the alphabet, was wholly
   covered by the royal palaces, with their gardens, and similar
   buildings, including the royal mausoleum, where the body of Alexander
   the Great, preserved in honey, was kept in a glass coffin. But these,
   and its three miles of colonnades along the principal highway, were
   only some of the magnificent architectural adornments of a city full of
   palaces. The population amounted, probably, to nearly a million, drawn
   from the East and West by trade, the attractions of wealth, the
   facilities for study, or the amusements of a singularly frivolous city.
   A strange mixture of elements among the people, combining the quickness
   and versatility of the Greek with the gravity, the conservatism, the
   dream-grandeur, and the luxury of the Eastern.

   Three worlds met in Alexandria: Europe, Asia, and Africa; and brought
   to it, or fetched from it, their treasures. Above all, it was a
   commercial city, furnished with an excellent harbour - or rather with
   five harbours. A special fleet carried, as tribute, from Alexandria to
   Italy, two-tenths of the corn produce of Egypt, which sufficed to feed
   the capital for four months of the year. A magnificent fleet it was,
   from the light quick sailer to those immense corn-ships which hoisted a
   special flag, and whose early arrival was awaited at Puteoli [262] with
   more eagerness than that of any modern ocean-steamer. [263] The
   commerce of India was in the hands of the Alexandrian shippers. [264]
   Since the days of the Ptolemies the Indian trade alone had increased
   sixfold. [265] Nor was the native industry inconsiderable. Linen goods,
   to suit the tastes or costumes of all countries; woolen stuffs of every
   hue, some curiously wrought with figures, and even scenes; glass of
   every shade and in every shape; paper from the thinnest sheet to the
   coarsest packing paper; essences, perfumeries - such were the native
   products. However idly or luxuriously inclined, still every one seemed
   busy, in a city where (as the Emperor Hadrian expressed it) money was
   the people's god;' and every one seemed well-to-do in his own way, from
   the waif in the streets, who with little trouble to himself could pick
   up sufficient to go to the restaurant and enjoy a comfortable dinner of
   fresh or smoked fish with garlic, and his pudding, washed down with the
   favourite Egyptian barley beer, up to the millionaire banker, who owned
   a palace in the city and a villa by the canal that connected Alexandria
   with Canobus. What a jostling crowd of all nations in the streets, in
   the market (where, according to the joke of a contemporary, anything
   might be got except snow), or by the harbours; what cool shades,
   delicious retreats, vast halls, magnificent libraries, where the
   savants of Alexandria assembled and taught every conceivable branch of
   learning, and its far-famed physicians prescribed for the poor
   consumptive patients sent thither from all parts of Italy! What bustle
   and noise among that ever excitable, chatty conceited, vain,
   pleasure-loving multitude, whose highest enjoyment was the theatre and
   singers; what scenes on that long canal to Canobus, lined with
   luxurious inns, where barks full of pleasure-seekers revelled in the
   cool shade of the banks, or sped to Canobus, that scene of all
   dissipation and luxury, proverbial even in those days! And yet, close
   by, on the shores of Lake Mareotis, as if in grim contrast, were the
   chosen retreats of that sternly ascetic Jewish party, the Therapeutæ,
   [266] whose views and practices in so many points were kindred to those
   of the Essenes in Palestine!

   This sketch of Alexandria will help us to understand the surroundings
   of the large mass of Jews settled in the Egyptian capital. Altogether
   more than an eighth of the population of the country (one million in
   7,800,000) was Jewish. Whether or not a Jewish colony had gone into
   Egypt at the time of Nebuchadnezzar, or even earlier, the great mass of
   its residents had been attracted by Alexander the Great, [267] who had
   granted the Jews equally exceptional privileges with the Macedonians.
   The later troubles of Palestine under the Syrian kings greatly swelled
   their number, the more so that the Ptolemies, with one exception,
   favoured them. Originally a special quarter had been assigned to the
   Jews in the city - the Delta' by the eastern harbour and the Canobus
   canal - probably alike to keep the community separate, and from its
   convenience for commercial purposes. The priveleges which the Ptolemies
   had accorded to the Jews were confirmed, and even enlarged, by Julius
   Cæsar. The export trade in grain was now in their hands, and the
   harbour and river police committed to their charge. Two quarters in the
   city are named as specially Jewish - not, however, in the sense of
   their being confined to them. Their Synagogues, surrounded by shady
   trees, stood in all parts of the city. But the chief glory of the
   Jewish community in Egypt, of which even the Palestinians boasted, was
   the great central Synagogue, built in the shape of a basilica, with
   double colonnade, and so large that it needed a signal for those most
   distant to know the proper moment for the responses. The different
   trade guilds sat there together, so that a stranger would at once know
   where to find Jewish employers or fellow-workmen. [268] In the choir of
   this Jewish cathedral stood seventy chairs of state, encrusted with
   precious stones, for the seventy elders who constituted the eldership
   of Alexandria, on the model of the great Sanhedrin in Jerusalem.

   It is a strange, almost inexplicable fact, that the Egyptian Jews had
   actually built a schismatic Temple. During the terrible Syrian
   persecutions in Palestine Onias, the son of the murdered High-Priest
   Onias III., had sought safety in Egypt. Ptolemy Philometor not only
   received him kindly, but gave a disused heathen temple in the town of
   Leontopolis for a Jewish sanctuary. Here a new Aaronic priesthood
   ministered, their support being derived from the revenues of the
   district around. The new Temple, however, resembled not that of
   Jerusalem either in outward appearance nor in all its internal
   fittings. [269] At first the Egyptian Jews were very proud of their new
   sanctuary, and professed to see in it the fulfilment of the prediction,
   [270] that five cities in the land of Egypt should speak the language
   of Canaan, of which one was to be called Ir-ha-Heres, which the LXX.
   (in their original form, or by some later emendation) altered into the
   city of righteousness.' This temple continued from about 160 b.c. to
   shortly after the destruction of Jerusalem. It could scarcely be called
   a rival to that on Mount Moriah, since the Egyptian Jews also owned
   that of Jerusalem as their central sanctuary, to which they made
   pilgrimages and brought their contributions, [271] while the priests at
   Leontopolis, before marrying, always consulted the official archives in
   Jerusalem to ascertain the purity of descent of their intended wives.
   [272] The Palestinians designated it contemptuously as the house of
   Chonyi' (Onias), and declared the priesthood of Leontopolis incapable
   of serving in Jerusalem, although on a par with those who were
   disqualified only by some bodily defect. Offerings brought in
   Leontopolis were considered null, unless in the case of vows to which
   the name of this Temple had been expressly attached. [273] This
   qualified condemnation seems, however, strangely mild, except on the
   supposition that the statements we have quoted only date from a time
   when both Temples had long passed away.

   Nor were such feelings unreasonable. The Egyptian Jews had spread on
   all sides - southward to Abyssinia and Ethiopia, and westward to, and
   beyond, the province of Cyrene. In the city of that name they formed
   one of the four classes into which its inhabitants were divided. [274]
   A Jewish inscription at Berenice, apparently dating from the year 13
   b.c., shows that the Cyrenian Jews formed a distinct community under
   nine rulers' of their own, who no doubt attended to the communal
   affairs - not always an easy matter, since the Cyrenian Jews were
   noted, if not for turbulence, yet for strong anti-Roman feeling, which
   more than once was cruelly quenched in blood. [275] Other inscriptions
   prove, [276] that in other places of their dispersion also the Jews had
   their own Archontes or rulers,' while the special direction of public
   worship was always entrusted to the Archisynagogos, or chief ruler of
   the Synagogue,' both titles occurring side by side. [277] It is, to say
   the least, very doubtful, whether the High-Priest at Leontopolis was
   ever regarded as, in any real sense, the head of the Jewish community
   in Egypt. [278] In Alexandria, the Jews were under the rule of a Jewish
   Ethnarch, [279] whose authority was similar to that of the Archon' of
   independent cities. [280] But his authority [281] was transferred, by
   Augustus, to the whole eldership.' [282] Another, probably Roman,
   office, though for obvious reasons often filled by Jews, was that of
   the Alabarch, or rather Arabarch, who was set over the Arab population.
   [283] Among others, Alexander, the brother of Philo, held this post. If
   we may judge of the position of the wealthy Jewish families in
   Alexandria by that of this Alabarch, their influence must have been
   very great. The firm of Alexander was probably as rich as the great
   Jewish banking and shipping house of Saramalla in Antioch. [284] Its
   chief was entrusted with the management of the affairs of Antonia, the
   much respected sister-in-law of the Emperor Tiberius. [285] It was a
   small thing for such a man to lend King Agrippa, when his fortunes were
   very low, a sum of about 7,000l. with which to resort to Italy, [286]
   since he advanced it on the guarantee of Agrippa's wife, whom he highly
   esteemed, and at the same time made provision that the money should not
   be all spent before the Prince met the Emperor. Besides, he had his own
   plans in the matter. Two of his sons married daughters of King Agrippa;
   while a third, at the price of apostasy, rose successively to the posts
   of Procurator of Palestine, and finally of Governor of Egypt. [287] The
   Temple at Jerusalem bore evidence of the wealth and munificence of this
   Jewish millionaire. The gold and silver with which the nine massive
   gates were covered, which led into the Temple, were the gift of the
   great Alexandrian banker.

   The possession of such wealth, coupled no doubt with pride and
   self-assertion, and openly spoken contempt of the superstitions around,
   [288] would naturally excite the hatred of the Alexandria populace
   against the Jews. The greater number of those silly stories about the
   origin, early history, and religion of the Jews, which even the
   philosophers and historians of Rome record as genuine, originated in
   Egypt. A whole series of writers, beginning with Manetho, [289] made it
   their business to give a kind of historical travesty of the events
   recorded in the books of Moses. The boldest of these scribblers was
   Apion, to whom Josephus replied - a world-famed charlatan and liar, who
   wrote or lectured, with equal presumption and falseness, on every
   conceivable object. He was just the man to suit the Alexandrians, on
   whom his unblushing assurance imposed. In Rome he soon found his level,
   and the Emperor Tiberius well characterised the irrepressible boastful
   talker as the tinkling cymbal of the world.' He had studied, seen, and
   heard everything - even, on three occasions, the mysterious sound on
   the Colossus of Memnon, as the sun rose upon it! At least, so he graved
   upon the Colossus itself, for the information of all generations. [290]
   Such was the man on whom the Alexandrians conferred the freedom of
   their city, to whom they entrusted their most important affairs, and
   whom they extolled as the victorious, the laborious, the new Homer.
   [291] There can be little doubt, that the popular favour was partly due
   to Apion's virulent attacks upon the Jews. His grotesque accounts of
   their history and religion held them up to contempt. But his real
   object was to rouse the fanaticism of the populace against the Jews.
   Every year, so he told them, it was the practice of the Jews to get
   hold of some unfortunate Hellene, whom ill-chance might bring into
   their hands, to fatten him for the year, and then to sacrifice him,
   partaking of his entrials, and burying the body, while during these
   horrible rites they took a fearful oath of perpetual enmity to the
   Greeks. These were the people who battened on the wealth of Alexandria,
   who had usurped quarters of the city to which they had no right, and
   claimed exceptional privileges; a people who had proved traitors to,
   and the ruin of every one who had trusted them. If the Jews,' he
   exclaimed, are citizens of Alexandria, why do they not worship the same
   gods as the Alexandrians?' And, if they wished to enjoy the protection
   of the Cæsars, why did they not erect statues, and pay Divine honor to
   them? [292] There is nothing strange in these appeals to the fanaticism
   of mankind. In one form or another, they have only too often been
   repeated in all lands and ages, and, alas! by the representatives of
   all creeds. Well might the Jews, as Philo mourns, [293] wish no better
   for themselves than to be treated like other men!

   We have already seen, that the ideas entertained in Rome about the Jews
   were chiefly derived from Alexandrian sources. But it is not easy to
   understand, how a Tacitus, Cicero, or Pliny could have credited such
   absurdities as that the Jews had come from Crete (Mount Ida - Idæi =
   Judæi), been expelled on account of leprosy from Egypt, and emigrated
   under an apostate priest, Moses; or that the Sabbath-rest originated in
   sores, which had obliged the wanderers to stop short on the seventh
   day; or that the Jews worshipped the head of an ass, or else Bacchus;
   that their abstinence from swine's flesh was due to remembrance and
   fear of leprosy, or else to the worship of that animal - and other
   puerilities of the like kind. [294] The educated Roman regarded the Jew
   with a mixture of contempt and anger, all the more keen that, according
   to his notions, the Jew had, since his subjection to Rome, no longer a
   right to his religion; and all the more bitter that, do what he might,
   that despised race confronted him everywhere, with a religion so
   uncompromising as to form a wall of separation, and with rites so
   exclusive as to make them not only strangers, but enemies. Such a
   phenomenon was nowhere else to be encountered. The Romans were
   intensely practical. In their view, political life and religion were
   not only intertwined, but the one formed part of the other. A religion
   apart from a political organisation, or which offered not, as a quid
   pro quo, some direct return from the Deity to his votaries, seemed
   utterly inconceivable. Every country has its own religion, argued
   Cicero, in his appeal for Flaccus. So long as Jerusalem was
   unvaquished, Judaism might claim toleration; but had not the immortal
   gods shown what they thought of it, when the Jewish race was conquered?
   This was a kind of logic that appealed to the humblest in the crowd,
   which thronged to hear the great orator defending his client, among
   others, against the charge of preventing the transport from Asia to
   Jerusalem of the annual Temple-tribute. This was not a popular
   accusation to bring against a man in such an assembly. And as the Jews
   - who, to create a distrubance, had (we are told) distributed
   themselves among the audience in such numbers, that Cicero somewhat
   rhetorically declared, he would fain have spoken with bated breath, so
   as to be only audible to the judges - listened to the great orator,
   they must have felt a keen pang shoot to their hearts while he held
   them up to the scorn of the heathen, and touched, with rough finger,
   their open sore, as he urged the ruin of their nation as the one
   unanswerable argument, which Materialism could bring against the
   religion of the Unseen.

   And that religion - was it not, in the words of Cicero, a barbarous
   superstition,' and were not its adherents, as Pliny had it, [295] a
   race distinguished for its contempt of the gods?' To begin with their
   theology. The Roman philosopher would sympathise with disbelief of all
   spiritual realities, as, on the other hand, he could understand the
   popular modes of worship and superstition. But what was to be said for
   a worship of something quite unseen, an adoration, as it seemed to him,
   of the clouds and of the sky, without any visible symbol, conjoined
   with an utter rejection of every other form of religion - Asiatic,
   Egyptian, Greek, Roman - and the refusal even to pay the customary
   Divine honor to the Cæsars, as the incarnation of Roman power? Next, as
   to their rites. Foremost among them was the initiatory rite of
   circumcision, a constant subject for coarse jests. What could be the
   meaning of it; or of what seemed like some ancestral veneration for the
   pig, or dread of it, since they made it a religious duty not to partake
   of its flesh? Their Sabbath-observance, however it had originated, was
   merely an indulgence in idleness. The fast young Roman literati would
   find their amusement in wandering on the Sabbath-eve through the
   tangled, narrow streets of the Ghetto, watching how the dim lamp within
   shed its unsavory light, while the inmates mumbled prayers with
   blanched lips;' [296] or they would, like Ovid, seek in the Synagogue
   occasion for their dissolute amusements. The Thursday fast was another
   target for their wit. In short, at the best, the Jew was a constant
   theme of popular merriment, and the theatre would resound with laughter
   as his religion was lampooned, no matter how absurd the stories, or how
   poor the punning. [297]

   And then, as the proud Roman passed on the Sabbath through the streets,
   Judaism would obtrude itself upon his notice, by the shops that were
   shut, and by the strange figures that idly moved about in holiday
   attire. They were strangers in a strange land, not only without
   sympathy with what passed around, but with marked contempt and
   abhorrence of it, while there was that about their whole bearing, which
   expressed the unspoken feeling, that the time of Rome's fall, and of
   their own supremacy, was at hand. To put the general feeling in the
   words of Tacitus, the Jews kept close together, and were ever most
   liberal to one another; but they were filled with bitter hatred of all
   others. They would neither eat nor sleep with strangers; and the first
   thing which they taught their proselytes was to despise the gods, to
   renounce their own country, and to rend the bonds which had bound them
   to parents, children or kindred. To be sure, there was some ground of
   distorted truth in these charges. For, the Jew, as such, was only
   intended for Palestine. By a necessity, not of his own making, he was
   now, so to speak, the negative element in the heathen world; yet one
   which, do what he might, would always obtrude itself upon public
   notice. But the Roman satirists went further. They accused the Jews of
   such hatred of all other religionists, that they would not even show
   the way to any who worshipped otherwise, nor point out the cooling
   spring to the thirsty. [298] According to Tacitus, there was a
   political and religious reason for this. In order to keep the Jews
   separate from all other nations, Moses had given them rites, contrary
   to those of any other race, that they might regard as unholy what was
   sacred to others, and as lawful what they held in abomination. [299]
   Such a people deserved neither consideration nor pity; and when the
   historian tells how thousands of their number had been banished by
   Tiberius to Sardinia, he dismisses the probability of their perishing
   in that severe climate with the cynical remark, that it entailed a poor
   loss' [300] (vile damnum).

   Still, the Jew was there in the midst of them. It is impossible to fix
   the date when the first Jewish wanderers found their way to the capital
   of the world. We know, that in the wars under Pompey, Cassius, and
   Antonius, many were brought captive to Rome, and sold as slaves. In
   general, the Republican party was hostile, the Cæsars were friendly, to
   the Jews. The Jewish slaves in Rome proved an unprofitable and
   troublesome acquisition. They clung so tenaciously to their ancestral
   customs, that it was impossible to make them conform to the ways of
   heathen households. [301] How far they would carry their passive
   resistance, appears from a story told by Josephus, [302] about some
   Jewish priests of his acquaintance, who, during their captivity in
   Rome, refused to eat anything but figs and nuts, so as to avoid the
   defilement of Gentile food. [303] Their Roman masters deemed it prudent
   to give their Jewish slaves their freedom, either at a small ransom, or
   even without it. These freedmen (liberti) formed the nucleus of the
   Jewish community in Rome, and in great measure determined its social
   character. Of course they were, as always, industrious, sober, pushing.
   In course of time many of them acquired wealth. By-and-by Jewish
   immigrants of greater distinction swelled their number. Still their
   social position was inferior to that of their co-religionists in other
   lands. A Jewish population so large as 40,000 in the time of Augustus,
   and 60,000 in that of Tiberius, would naturally included all ranks -
   merchants, bankers, literati, even actors. [304] In a city which
   offered such temptations, they would number among them those of every
   degree of religious profession; nay, some who would not only imitate
   the habits of those around, but try to outdo their gross
   licentiousness. [305] Yet, even so, they would vainly endeavor to
   efface the hateful mark of being Jews.

   Augustus had assigned to the Jews as their special quarter the
   fourteenth region' across the Tiber, which stretched from the slope of
   the Vatican onwards and across the Tiber-island, where the boats from
   Ostia were wont to unload. This seems to have been their poor quarter,
   chiefly inhabited by hawkers, sellers of matches, [306] glass, old
   clothes and second-hand wares. The Jewish burying-ground in that
   quarter [307] gives evidence of their condition. The whole appointments
   and the graves are mean. There is neither marble nor any trace of
   painting, unless it be a rough representation of the seven-branched
   candlestick in red coloring. Another Jewish quarter was by the Porta
   Capena, where the Appian Way entered the city. Close by, the ancient
   sanctuary of Egeria was utilized at the time of Juvenal [308] as a
   Jewish hawking place. But there must have been richer Jews also in that
   neighborhood, since the burying-place there discovered has paintings -
   some even of mythological figures, of which the meaning has not yet
   been ascertained. A third Jewish burying-ground was near the ancient
   Christian catacombs.

   But indeed, the Jewish residents in Rome must have spread over every
   quarter of the city - even the best - to judge by the location of their
   Synagogues. From inscriptions, we have been made acquainted not only
   with the existence, but with the names, of not fewer than seven of
   these Synagogues. Three of them respectively bear the names of
   Augustus, Agrippa, and Volumnius, either as their patrons, or because
   the worshippers were chiefly their attendants and clients; while two of
   them derived their names from the Campus Martius, and the quarter
   Subura in which they stood. [309] The Synagoge Elaias' may have been so
   called from bearing on its front the device of an olive-tree, a
   favourite, and in Rome specially significant, emblem of Israel, whose
   fruit, crushed beneath heavy weight, would yield the precious oil by
   which the Divine light would shed its brightness through the night of
   heathendom. [310] Of course, there must have been other Synagogues
   besides those whose names have been discovered.

   One other mode of tracking the footsteps of Israel's wanderings seems
   strangely significant. It is by tracing their records among the dead,
   reading them on broken tombstones, and in ruined monuments. They are
   rude, and the inscriptions - most of them in bad Greek, or still worse
   Latin, none in Hebrew - are like the stammering of strangers. Yet what
   a contrast between the simple faith and earnest hope which they
   express, and the grim proclamation of utter disbelief in any future to
   the soul, not unmixed with language of coarsest materialism, on the
   graves of so many of the polished Romans ! Truly the pen of God in
   history has, as so often, ratified the sentence which a nation had
   pronounced upon itself. That civilisation was doomed which could
   inscribe over its dead such words as: To eternal sleep;' To perpetual
   rest;' or more coarsely express it thus, I was not, and I became; I
   was, and am no more. Thus much is true; who says other, lies; for I
   shall not be,' adding, as it were by way of moral, And thou who livest,
   drink, play, come.' Not so did God teach His people; and, as we pick
   our way among these broken stones, we can understand how a religion,
   which proclaimed a hope so different, must have spoken to the hearts of
   many even at Rome, and much more, how that blessed assurance of life
   and immortality, which Christianity afterwards brought, could win its
   thousands, though it were at the cost of poverty, shame, torture, and
   the arena.

   Wandering from graveyard to graveyard, and deciphering the records of
   the dead, we can almost read the history of Israel in the days of the
   Cæsars, or when Paul the prisoner set foot on the soil of Italy. When
   St. Paul, on the journey of the Castor and Pollux,' touched at
   Syracuse, he would, during his stay of three days, find himself in the
   midst of a Jewish community, as we learn from an inscription. When he
   disembarked at Puteoli, he was in the oldest Jewish settlement next to
   that of Rome, [311] where the loving hospitality of Christian
   Israelites constrained him to tarry over a Sabbath. As he went towards
   Rome,' and reached Capua, he would meet Jews there, as we infer from
   the tombstone of one Alfius Juda,' who had been Archon' of the Jews,
   and Archisynagogus' in Capua. As he neared the city, he found in Anxur
   (Terracina) a Synagogue. [312] In Rome itself the Jewish community was
   organized as in other places. [313] It sounds strange, as after these
   many centuries we again read the names of the Archons of their various
   Synagogues, all Roman, such as Claudius, Asteris, Julian (who was
   Archon alike of the Campesian and the Agrippesian Synagogue priest, the
   son of Julian the Archisynagogus, or chief of the eldership of the
   Augustesian Synagogue). And so in other places. On these tombstones we
   find names of Jewish Synagogue-dignitaries, in every centre of
   population, in Pompeii, in Venusia, the birthplace of Horace; in Jewish
   catacombs; and similarly Jewish inscriptions in Africa, in Asia, in the
   islands of the Mediterranean, in Ægina, in Patræ, in Athens. Even where
   as yet records of their early settlements have not been discovered, we
   still infer their presence, as we remember the almost incredible extent
   of Roman commerce, which led to such large settlements in Britain, or
   as we discover among the tombstones those of Syrian' merchants, as in
   Spain (where St. Paul hoped to preach, no doubt, also to his own
   countrymen), throughout Gaul, and even in the remotest parts of
   Germany. [314] Thus the statements of Josephus and of Philo, as to the
   dispersion of Israel throughout all lands of the known world, are fully
   borne out.

   But the special importance of the Jewish community in Rome lay in its
   contiguity to the seat of the government of the world, where every
   movement could be watched and influenced, and where it could lend
   support to the wants and wishes of that compact body which, however
   widely scattered, was one in heart and feeling, in thought and purpose,
   in faith and practice, in suffering and in prosperity. [315] Thus, when
   upon the death of Herod a deputation from Palestine appeared in the
   capital to seek the restoration of their Theocracy under a Roman
   protectorate, [316] no less than 8,000 of the Roman Jews joined it. And
   in case of need they could find powerful friends, not only among the
   Herodian princes, but among court favourites who were Jews, like the
   actor of whom Josephus speaks; [317] among those who were inclined
   towards Judaism, like Poppæa, the dissolute wife of Nero, whose coffin
   as that of a Jewess was laid among the urns of the emperors; [318] or
   among real proselytes, like those of all ranks who, from superstition
   or conviction, had identified themselves with the Synagogue. [319]

   In truth, there was no law to prevent the spread of Judaism. Excepting
   the brief period when Tiberius [320] banished the Jews from Rome and
   sent 4,000 of their number to fight the banditti in Sardinia, the Jews
   enjoyed not only perfect liberty, but exceptional privileges. In the
   reign of Cæsar and of Augustus we have quite a series of edicts, which
   secured the full exercise of their religion and their communal rights.
   [321] In virtue of these they were not to be disturbed in their
   religious ceremonies, nor in the observance of their sabbaths and
   feasts. The annual Temple-tribute was allowed to be transported to
   Jerusalem, and the alienation of these funds by the civil magistrates
   treated as sacrilege. As the Jews objected to bear arms, or march, on
   the Sabbath, they were freed from military service. On similar grounds,
   they were not obliged to appear in courts of law on their holy days.
   Augustus even ordered that, when the public distribution of corn or of
   money among the citizens fell on a Sabbath, the Jews were to receive
   their share on the following day. In a similar spirit the Roman
   authorities confirmed a decree by which the founder of Antioch,
   Seleucus I. (Nicator), [322] had granted the Jews the right of
   citizenship in all the cities of Asia Minor and Syria which he had
   built, and the privilege of receiving, instead of the oil that was
   distributed, which their religion forbade them to use, [323] an
   equivalent in money. [324] These rights were maintained by Vespasian
   and Titus even after the last Jewish war, notwithstanding the earnest
   remonstrances of these cities. No wonder, that at the death of Cæsar
   [325] the Jews of Rome gathered for many nights, waking strange
   feelings of awe in the city, as they chanted in mournful melodies their
   Psalms around the pyre on which the body of their benefactor had been
   burnt, and raised their pathetic dirges. [326] The measures of Sejanus,
   and ceased with his sway. Besides, they were the outcome of public
   feeling at the time against all foreign rites, which had been roused by
   the vile conduct of the priests of Isis towards a Roman matron, and was
   again provoked by a gross imposture upon Fulvia, a noble Roman
   proselyte, on the part of some vagabond Rabbis. But even so, there is
   no reason to believe that literally all Jews had left Rome. Many would
   find means to remain secretly behind. At any rate, twenty years
   afterwards Philo found a large community there, ready to support him in
   his mission on behalf of his Egyptian countrymen. Any temporary
   measures against the Jews can, therefore, scarcely be regarded as a
   serious interference with their privileges, or a cessation of the
   Imperial favour shown to them.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [260] What charm Egypt had for the Romans may be gathered from so many
   of their mosaics and frescoes. Comp. Friedländer, u. s. vol. ii. pp.
   134-136.

   [261] This immense lighthouse was square up to the middle, then covered
   by an octagon, the top being round. The last recorded repairs to this
   magnificent structure of blocks of marble were made in the year 1303 of
   our era.

   [262] The average passage from Alexandria to Puteoli was twelve days,
   the ships touching at Malta and in Sicily. It was in such a ship, the
   Castor and Pollux' carrying wheat, that St. Paul sailed from Malta to
   Puteoli, where it would be among the first arrivals of the season.

   [263] They bore, painted on the two sides of the prow, the emblems of
   the gods to whom they were dedicated, and were navigated by Egyptian
   pilots, the most reowned in the world. One of these vessels is
   described as 180 by 45 feet and of about 1,575 tons, and is computed to
   have returned to its owner nearly 3,000l. annually. (Comp. Friedländer,
   u.s. vol. ii. p. 131, &c.) And yet these were small ships compared with
   those built for the conveyance of marble blocks and columns, and
   especially of obelisks. One of these is said to have carried, besides
   an obelisk, 1,200 passenger, a freight of paper, nitre, pepper, linen,
   and a large cargo of wheat.

   [264] The journey took about three months, either up the Nile, thence
   by caravan, and again by sea; or else perhaps by the Ptolemy Canal and
   the Red Sea.

   [265] It included gold-dust, ivory, and mother-of-pearl from the
   interior of Africa, spices from Arabia, pearls from the Gulf of Persia,
   precious stones and byssus from India, and silk from China.

   [266] On the existence of the Therapeutes comp. Art. Philo in Smith &
   Wace's Dict. of Chr. Biogr. vol. iv.

   [267] Mommsen (Röm. Gesch. v. p. 489) ascribes this rather to Ptolemy
   I.

   [268] Sukk. 51 b.

   [269] Instead of the seven-branched golden candlestick there was a
   golden lamp, suspended from a chain of the same metal.

   [270] Is xix. 18.

   [271] Philo, ii. 646, ed. Mangey.

   [272] Jos. Ag. Ap. i. 7.

   [273] Men. xiii. 10, and the Gemara, 109 a and b.

   [274] Strabo in Jos. Ant. xiv. 7, 2.

   [275] Could there have been any such meaning in laying the Roman cross
   which Jesus had to bear upon a Cyrenian (St. Luke xxiii. 26)? A
   symbolical meaning it certainly has, as we remember that the last
   Jewish rebellion (132-135 a.d.), which had Bar Cochba for its Messiah,
   first broke out in Cyrene. What terrible vengeance was taken on those
   who followed the false Christ, cannot here be told.

   [276] Jewish inscriptions have also been found in Mauritania and
   Algiers.

   [277] On a tombstone at Capua (Mommsen, Inscr. R. Neap. 3,657, apud
   Schürer, p 629). The subject is of great importance as illustrating the
   rule of the Synagogue in the days of Christ. Another designation on the
   gravestones patr sunagogs seems to refer solely to age - one being
   described as 110 years old.

   [278] Jost, Gesch. d. Judenth. i. p. 345.

   [279] Marquardt (Röm. Staatsverwalt. vol. i. p. 297). Note 5 suggests
   that thnos may here mean classes, ordo.

   [280] Strabo in Jos. Ant. xiv. 7. 2

   [281] The office itself would seem to have been continued. (Jos. Ant.
   xix. 5. 2.)

   [282] Philo, in Flacc. ed. Mangey, ii. 527

   [283] Comp. Wesseling, de Jud. Archont. pp. 63, &c., apud Schürer, pp.
   627,628.

   [284] Jos. Ant. xiv. 13. 5; War. i. 13, 5

   [285] Ant. xix 5. 1

   [286] Ant. xviii. 6.3

   [287] Ant. xix. 5. 1; xx. 5. 3

   [288] Comp., for example, such a trenchant chapter as Baruch vi., or
   the 2nd Fragm. of the Erythr. Sibyl, vv. 21-33.

   [289] Probably about 200 b.c.

   [290] Comp. Friedländer, u. s. ii. p. 155.

   [291] A very good sketch of Apion is given by Hausrath, Neutest. Zeitg.
   vol. ii. pp. 187-195.

   [292] Jos. Ag. Ap. ii. 4, 5, 6.

   [293] Leg. ad Caj. ed. Frcf.

   [294] Comp. Tacitus, Hist. v. 2-4; Plut. Sympos. iv. 5

   [295] Hist. Nat. xiii. 4.

   [296] Persius v. 184.

   [297] Comp. the quotation of such scenes in the Introd. to the Midrash
   on Lamentations.

   [298] Juv. Sat. xiv. 103, 104

   [299] Hist. v. 13

   [300] Ann. ii.85, Comp. Suet. Tib. 36.

   [301] Philo, Leg. ad Caj. ed. Frcf. p. 101.

   [302] Life 3.

   [303] Lutterbeck (Neutest. Lehrbegr. p. 119), following up the
   suggestions of Wieseler (Chron. d. Apost. Zeitalt. pp. 384, 402, etc.),
   regards these priests as the accusers of St. Paul, who brought about
   his martyrdom.

   [304] Comp., for example, Mart. xi. 94; Jos. Life 3.

   [305] Martialis, u. s. The Anchialus' by whom the poet would have the
   Jew swear, is a corruption of Anochi Elohim (I am God') in Ex. xx. 2.
   Comp. Ewald, Gesch. Isr. vol. vii. p. 27.

   [306] Mart. i.41; xii. 57.

   [307] Described by Bosio, but since unknown. Comp. Friedländer, u. s.
   vol. iii. pp. 510, 511.

   [308] Sat. iii.13; vi. 542.

   [309] Comp. Friedländer, u. s. vol. iii. p.510.

   [310] Midr. R. on Ex. 36.

   [311] Jos. Ant. xvii. 12. 1; War ii. 7. 1.

   [312] Comp. Cassel, in Ersch u. Gruber's Encyclop. 2d sect. vol. xxvii.
   p. 147.

   [313] Acts xxviii. 17.

   [314] Comp. Friedländer, u. s. vol. ii. pp. 17-204 passim.

   [315] It was probably this unity of Israelitish interests which Cicero
   had in view (Pro Flacco, 28) when he took such credit for his boldness
   in daring to stand up against the Jews - unless, indeed, the orator
   only meant to make a point in favour of his client.

   [316] Jos. Ant. xvii. 11. 1; War. ii. 6. 1.

   [317] Life 3.

   [318] Schiller (Gesch. d. Röm. Kaiserreichs, p. 583) denies that Poppæa
   was a proselyte. It is, indeed, true, as he argues, that the fact of
   her entombment affords no absolute evidence of this, if taken by
   itself; but comp. Jos. Ant. xx. 8. 11; Life 3.

   [319] The question of Jewish proselytes will be treated in another
   place.

   [320] 19 a.d.

   [321] Comp. Jos. Ant. xiv. 10, passim, and xvi. 6. These edicts are
   collated in Krebs. Decreta Romanor. pro Jud. facta, with long comments
   by the author, and by Levyssohn.

   [322] Ob.280 b.c.

   [323] Ab. Sar ii. 6.

   [324] Jos. Ant. xii. 3. 1.

   [325] 44 b.c.

   [326] Suet. Cæs. 84.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER VI.
POLITICAL AND RELIGIOUS LIFE OF THE JEWISH DISPERSION IN THE WEST - THEIR UNION
IN THE GREAT HOPE OF THE COMING DELIVERER.

   It was not only in the capital of the Empire that the Jews enjoyed the
   rights of Roman citizenship. Many in Asia Minor could boast of the same
   privilege. [327] The Seleucidic rulers of Syria had previously bestowed
   kindred privileges on the Jews in many places. Thus, they possessed in
   some cities twofold rights: the status of Roman and the privileges of
   Asiatic, citizenship. Those who enjoyed the former were entitled to a
   civil government of their own, under archons of their choosing, quite
   independent of the rule and tribunals of the cities in which they
   lived. As instances, we may mention the Jews of Sardis, Ephesus, Delos,
   and apparently also of Antioch. But, whether legally entitled to it or
   not, they probably everywhere claimed the right of self-government, and
   exercised it, except in times of persecution. But, as already stated,
   they also possessed, besides this, at least in many places, the
   privileges of Asiatic citizenship, to the same extent as their heathen
   fellow-citizens. This twofold status and jurisdiction might have led to
   serious complications, if the archons had not confined their authority
   to strictly communal interests, [328] without interfering with the
   ordinary administration of justice, and the Jews willingly submitted to
   the sentences pronounced by their own tribunals.

   But, in truth, they enjoyed even more than religious liberty and
   communal privileges. It was quite in the spirit of the times, that
   potentates friendly to Israel bestowed largesses alike on the Temple in
   Jerusalem, and on the Synagogues in the provinces. The magnificent
   porch of the Temple was adorned' with many such dedicated gifts.' Thus,
   we read of repeated costly offerings by the Ptolemies, of a golden
   wreath which Sosius offered after he had taken Jerusalem in conjunction
   with Herod, and of rich flagons which Augustus and his wife had given
   to the Sanctuary. [329] And, although this same Emperor praised his
   grandson for leaving Jerusalem unvisited on his journey from Egypt to
   Syria, yet he himself made provision for a daily sacrifice on his
   behalf, which only ceased when the last war against Rome was
   proclaimed. [330] Even the circumstance that there was a Court of the
   Gentiles,' with marble screen beautifully ornamented, bearing tablets
   which, in Latin and Greek, warned Gentiles not to proceed further,
   [331] proves that the Sanctuary was largely attended by others than
   Jews, or, in the words of Josephus, that it was held in reverence by
   nations from the ends of the earth.' [332]

   In Syria also, where, according to Josephus, the largest number of Jews
   lived, [333] they experienced special favour. In Antioch their rights
   and immunities were recorded on tables of brass. [334]

   But, indeed, the capital of Syria was one of their favourite resorts.
   It will be remembered what importance attached to it in the early
   history of the Christian Church. Antioch was the third city of the
   Empire, and lay just outside what the Rabbinists designated as Syria'
   and still regarded as holy ground. Thus it formed, so to speak, an
   advanced post between the Palestinian and the Gentile world. Its chief
   Synagogue was a magnificent building, to which the successors of
   Antiochus Epiphanes had given the spoils which that monarch had brought
   from the Temple. The connection between Jerusalem and Antioch was very
   close. All that occurred in that city was eagerly watched in the Jewish
   capital. The spread of Christianity there must have excited deep
   concern. Careful as the Talmud is not to afford unwelcome information,
   which might have led to further mischief, we know that three of the
   principal Rabbis went thither on a mission - we can scarcely doubt for
   the purpose of arresting the progress of Christianity. Again, we find
   at a later period a record of religious controversy in Antioch between
   Rabbis and Christians. [335] Yet the Jews of Antioch were strictly
   Hellenistic, and on one occasion a great Rabbi was unable to find among
   them a copy of even the Book of Esther in Hebrew, which, accordingly,
   he had to write out from memory for his use in their Synagogue. A fit
   place this great border-city, crowded by Hellenists, in close
   connection with Jerusalem, to be the birthplace of the name Christian,'
   to send forth a Paul on his mission to the Gentile world, and to obtain
   for it a charter of citizenship far nobler than that of which the
   record was graven on tablets of brass.

   But, whatever privileges Israel might enjoy, history records an almost
   continuous series of attempts, on the part of the communities among
   whom they lived, to deprive them not only of their immunities, but even
   of their common rights. Foremost among the reasons of this antagonism
   we place the absolute contrariety between heathenism and the Synagogue,
   and the social isolation which Judaism rendered necessary. It was
   avowedly unlawful for the Jew even to keep company, or come unto one of
   another nation.' [336] To quarrel with this, was to find fault with the
   law and the religion which made him a Jew. But besides, there was that
   pride of descent, creed, enlightenment, and national privileges, which
   St. Paul so graphically sums up as making boast of God and of the law.'
   [337] However differently they might have expressed it, Philo and
   Hillel would have been at one as to the absolute superiority of the Jew
   as such. Pretensions of this kind must have been the more provocative,
   that the populace at any rate envied the prosperity which Jewish
   industry, talent, and capital everywhere secured. Why should that
   close, foreign corporation possess every civic right, and yet be free
   from many of its burdens? Why should their meetings be excepted from
   the collegia illicita?' why should they alone be allowed to export part
   of the national wealth, to dedicate it to their superstition in
   Jerusalem? The Jew could not well feign any real interest in what gave
   its greatness to Ephesus, it attractiveness to Corinth, its influence
   to Athens. He was ready to profit by it; but his inmost thought must
   have been contempt, and all he wanted was quietness and protection in
   his own pursuits. What concern had he with those petty squabbles,
   ambitions, or designs, which agitated the turbulent populace in those
   Grecian cities? What cared he for their popular meetings and noisy
   discussions? The recognition of the fact that, as Jews, they were
   strangers in a strange land, made them so loyal to the ruling powers,
   and procured them the protection of kings and Cæsars. But it also
   roused the hatred of the populace.

   That such should have been the case, and these widely scattered members
   have been united in one body, is a unique fact in history. Its only
   true explanation must be sought in a higher Divine impulse. The links
   which bound them together were: a common creed, a common life, a common
   centre, and a common hope.

   Wherever the Jew sojourned, or however he might differ from his
   brethern, Monotheism, the Divine mission of Moses, and the authority of
   the Old Testament, were equally to all unquestioned articles of belief.
   It may well have been that the Hellenistic Jew, living in the midst of
   a hostile, curious, and scurrilous population, did not care to exhibit
   over his house and doorposts, at the right of the entrance, the
   Mezuzah, [338] which enclosed the folded parchment that, on twenty-two
   lines, bore the words from Deut. iv. 4-9 and xi. 13-21, or to call
   attention by their breadth to the Tephillin, [339] or phylacteries on
   his left arm and forehead, or even to make observable the Tsitsith,
   [340] or fringes on the borders of his garments. [341] Perhaps, indeed,
   all these observances may at that time not have been deemed incumbent
   on every Jew. [342] At any rate, we do not find mention of them in
   heathen writers. Similarly, they could easily keep out of view, or they
   may not have had conveniences for, their prescribed purifications. But
   in every place, as we have abundant evidence, where there were at least
   ten Batlanim - male householders who had leisure to give themselves to
   regular attendance - they had, from ancient times, [343] one, and, if
   possible, more Synagogues. [344] Where there was no Synagogue there was
   at least a Proseuche, [345] [346] open sky, after the form of a
   theatre, generally outside the town, near a river or the sea, for the
   sake of lustrations. These, as we know from classical writers, were
   well known to the heathen, and even frequented by them. Their Sabbath
   observance, their fasting on Thursdays, their Day of Atonement, their
   laws relating to food, and their pilgrimages to Jerusalem - all found
   sympathisers among Judaising Gentiles. [347] They even watched to see,
   how the Sabbath lamp was kindled, and the solemn prayers spoken which
   marked the beginning of the Sabbath. [348] But to the Jew the Synagogue
   was the bond of union throughout the world. There, on Sabbath and feast
   days they met to read, from the same Lectionary, the same
   Scripture-lessons which their brethren read throughout the world, and
   to say, in the words of the same liturgy, their common prayers,
   catching echoes of the gorgeous Temple-services in Jerusalem. The
   heathen must have been struck with awe as they listened, and watched in
   the gloom of the Synagogue the mysterious light at the far curtained
   end, where the sacred oracles were reverently kept, wrapped in costly
   coverings. Here the stranger Jew also would find himself at home: the
   same arrangements as in his own land, and the well-known services and
   prayers. A hospitable welcome at the Sabbath-meal, and in many a home,
   would be pressed on him, and ready aid be proffered in work or trial.

   For, deepest of all convictions was that of their common centre;
   strongest of all feelings was the love which bound them to Palestine
   and to Jerusalem, the city of God, the joy of all the earth, the glory
   of His people Israel. If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, let my right hand
   forget her cunning; let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth,'
   Hellenist and Eastern equally realised this. As the soil of his native
   land, the deeds of his people, or the graves of his fathers draw the
   far-off wanderer to the home of his childhood, or fill the mountaineer
   in his exile with irrepressible longing, so the sounds which the Jew
   heard in his Synagogue, and the observances which he kept. Nor was it
   with him merely matter of patriotism, of history, or of association. It
   was a religious principle, a spiritual hope. No truth more firmly
   rooted in the consciousness of all, than that in Jerusalem alone men
   could truly worship. [349] As Daniel of old had in his hour of worship
   turned towards the Holy City, so in the Synagogue and in his prayers
   every Jew turned towards Jerusalem; and anything that might imply want
   of reverence, when looking in that direction, was considered a grievous
   sin. From every Synagogue in the Diaspora the annual Temple-tribute
   went up to Jerusalem, [350] no doubt often accompanied by rich votive
   offerings. Few, who could undertake or afford the journey, but had at
   some time or other gone up to the Holy City to attend one of the great
   feasts. [351] Philo, who was held by the same spell as the most bigoted
   Rabbinist, had himself been one of those deputed by his fellow-citizens
   to offer prayers and sacrifices in the great Sanctuary. [352] Views and
   feelings of this kind help us to understand, how, on some great feast,
   as Josephus states on sufficient authority, the population of Jerusalem
   - within its ecclesiastical boundaries - could have swelled to the
   enormous number of nearly three millions. [353]

   And still, there was an even stronger bond in their common hope. That
   hope pointed them all, wherever scattered, back to Palestine. To them
   the coming of the Messiah undoubtedly implied the restoration of
   Israel's kingdom, and, as a first part in it, the return of the
   dispersed.' [354] Indeed, every devout Jew prayed, day by day: Proclaim
   by Thy loud trumpet our deliverance, and raise up a banner to gather
   our dispersed, and gather us together from the four ends of the earth.
   Blessed be Thou, O Lord! Who gatherest the outcasts of Thy people
   Israel.' [355] That prayer included in its generality also the lost ten
   tribes. So, for example, the prophecy [356] was rendered: They hasten
   hither, like a bird out of Egypt,' - referring to Israel of old; and
   like a dove out of the land of Assyria' - referring to the ten tribes.
   [357] [358] And thus even these wanderers, so long lost, were to be
   reckoned in the field of the Good Shepherd. [359]

   It is worth while to trace, how universally and warmly both Eastern and
   Western Judaism cherished this hope of all Israel's return to their own
   land. The Targumim bear repeated reference to it; [360] and although
   there may be question as to the exact date of these paraphrases, it
   cannot be doubted, that in this respect they represented the views of
   the Synagogue at the time of Jesus. For the same reason we may gather
   from the Talmud and earliest commentaries, what Israel's hope was in
   regard to the return of the dispersed.' [361] It was a beautiful idea
   to liken Israel to the olive-tree, which is never stripped of its
   leaves. [362] The storm of trial that had swept over it was, indeed,
   sent in judgment, but not to destroy, only to purify. Even so, Israel's
   persecutions had served to keep them from becoming mixed with the
   Gentiles. Heaven and earth might be destroyed, but not Israel; and
   their final deliverance would far outstrip in marvellousness that from
   Egypt. The winds would blow to bring together the dispersed; nay, if
   there were a single Israelite in a land, however distant, he would be
   restored. With every honour would the nations bring them back. The
   patriarchs and all the just would rise to share in the joys Patræ of
   the new possession of their land; new hymns as well as the old ones
   would rise to the praise of God. Nay, the bounds of the land would be
   extended far beyond what they had ever been, and made as wide as
   originally promised to Abraham. Nor would that possession be ever taken
   from them, nor those joys be ever succeeded by sorrows. [363] In view
   of such general expectations we cannot fail to mark with what wonderful
   sobriety the Apostles put the question to Jesus: Wilt Thou at this time
   restore the kingdom to Israel?' [364]

   Hopes and expectations such as these are expressed not only in
   Talmudical writings. We find them throughout that very interesting
   Apocalyptic class of literature, the Pseudepigrapha, to which reference
   has already been made. The two earliest of them, the Book of Enoch and
   the Sibylline Oracles, are equally emphatic on this subject. The seer
   in the Book of Enoch beholds Israel in the Messianic time as coming in
   carriages, and as borne on the wings of the wind from East, and West,
   and South. [365] Fuller details of that happy event are furnished by
   the Jewish Sibyl. In her utterances these three events are connected
   together: the coming of the Messiah, the rebuilding of the Temple,
   [366] and the restoration of the dispersed, [367] when all nations
   would bring their wealth to the House of God. [368] [369] The latter
   trait specially reminds us of their Hellenistic origin. A century later
   the same joyous confidence, only perhaps more clearly worded, appears
   in the so-called Psalter of Solomon.' Thus the seventeenth Psalm bursts
   into this strain: Blessed are they who shall live in those days - in
   the reunion of the tribes, which God brings about.' [370] And no
   wonder, since they are the days when the King, the Son of David,' [371]
   having purged Jerusalem [372] and destroyed the heathen by the word of
   His mouth, [373] would gather together a holy people which He would
   rule with justice, and judge the tribes of His people, [374] dividing
   them over the land according to tribes;' when no stranger would any
   longer dwell among them.' [375]

   Another pause, and we reach the time when Jesus the Messiah appeared.
   Knowing the characteristics of that time, we scarcely wonder that the
   Book of Jubilees, which dates from that period, should have been
   Rabbinic in its cast rather than Apocalyptic. Yet even there the
   reference to the future glory is distinct. Thus we are told, that,
   though for its wickedness Israel had been scattered, God would gather
   them all from the midst of the heathen,' build among them His
   Sanctuary, and dwell with them.' That Sanctuary was to be for ever and
   ever, and God would appear to the eye of every one, and every one
   acknowledge that He was the God of Israel, and the Father of all the
   Children of Jacob, and King upon Mount Zion, from everlasting to
   everlasting. And Zion and Jerusalem shall be holy.' [376] When
   listening to this language of, perhaps, a contemporary of Jesus, we can
   in some measure understand the popular indignation which such a charge
   would call forth, as that the Man of Nazareth had proposed to destroy
   the Temple, [377] or that he thought merely of the children of Jacob.

   There is an ominous pause of a century before we come to the next work
   of this class, which bears the title of the Fourth Book of Esdras. That
   century had been decisive in the history of Israel. Jesus had lived and
   died; His Apostles had gone forth to bear the tidings of the new
   Kingdom of God; the Church had been founded and separated from the
   Synagogue; and the Temple had been destroyed, the Holy City laid waste,
   and Israel undergone sufferings, compared with which the former
   troubles might almost be forgotten. But already the new doctrine had
   struck its roots deep alike in Eastern and in Hellenistic soil. It were
   strange indeed if, in such circumstances, this book should not have
   been different from any that had preceded it; stranger still, if
   earnest Jewish minds and ardent Jewish hearts had remained wholly
   unaffected by the new teaching, even though the doctrine of the Cross
   still continued a stumbling-block, and the Gospel announcement a rock
   of offence. But perhaps we could scarcely have been prepared to find,
   as in the Fourth Book of Esdras, doctrinal views which were wholly
   foreign to Judaism, and evidently derived from the New Testament, and
   which, in logical consistency, would seem to lead up to it. [378] The
   greater part of the book may be described as restless tossing, the seer
   being agitated by the problem and the consequences of sin, which here
   for the first and only time is presented as in the New Testament; by
   the question, why there are so few who are saved; and especially by
   what to a Jew must have seemed the inscrutable, terrible mystery of
   Israel's sufferings and banishment. [379] Yet, so far as we can see, no
   other way of salvation is indicated than that by works and personal
   righteousness. Throughout there is a tone of deep sadness and intense
   earnestness. It almost seems sometimes, as if one heard the wind of the
   new dispensation sweeping before it the withered leaves of Israel's
   autumn. Thus far for the principal portion of the book. The second, or
   Apocalyptic, part, endeavors to solve the mystery of Israel's state by
   foretelling their future. Here also there are echoes of New Testament
   utterances. What the end is to be, we are told in unmistakable
   language. His Son,' Whom the Highest has for a long time preserved, to
   deliver the creature' by Him, is suddenly to appear in the form of a
   Man. From His mouth shall proceed alike woe, fire, and storm, which are
   the tribulations of the last days. And as they shall gather for war
   against Him, He shall stand on Mount Zion, and the Holy City shall come
   down from heaven, prepared and ready, and He shall destroy all His
   enemies. But a peaceable multitude shall now be gathered to Him. These
   are the ten tribes, who, to separate themselves from the ways of the
   heathen, had wandered far away, miraculously helped, a journey of one
   and a half years, and who were now similarly restored by God to their
   own land. But as for the Son,' or those who accompanied him, no one on
   earth would be able to see or know them, till the day of His appearing.
   [380] [381]

   It seems scarcely necessary to complete the series of testimony by
   referring in detail to a book, called The Prophecy and Assumption of
   Moses,' and to what is known as the Apocalypse of Baruch, the servant
   of Jeremiah. Both date from probably a somewhat later period than the
   Fourth Book of Esdras, and both are fragmentary. The one distinctly
   anticipates the return of the ten tribes; [382] the other, in the
   letter to the nine and a half tribes, far beyond the Euphrates, [383]
   with which the book closes, preserves an ominous silence on that point,
   or rather alludes to it in language which so strongly reminds us of the
   adverse opinion expressed in the Talmud, that we cannot help suspecting
   some internal connection between the two. [384]

   The writings to which we have referred have all a decidedly Hellenistic
   tinge of thought. [385] Still they are not the outcome of pure
   Hellenism. It is therefore with peculiar interest that we turn to
   Philo, the great representative of that direction, to see whether he
   would admit an idea so purely national and, as it might seem,
   exclusive. Nor are we here left in doubt. So universal was this belief,
   so deep-seated the conviction, not only in the mind, but in the heart
   of Israel, that we could scarcely find it more distinctly expressed
   than by the great Alexandrian. However low the condition of Israel
   might be, he tells us, [386] or however scattered the people to the
   ends of the earth, the banished would, on a given sign, be set free in
   one day. In consistency with his system, he traces this wondrous event
   to their sudden conversion to virtue, which would make their masters
   ashamed to hold any longer in bondage those who were so much better
   than themselves. Then, gathering as by one impulse, the dispersed would
   return from Hellas, from the lands of the barbarians, from the isles,
   and from the continents, led by a Divine, superhuman apparition
   invisible to others, and visible only to themselves. On their arrival
   in Palestine the waste places and the wilderness would be inhabited,
   and the barren land transformed into fruitfulness.

   Whatever shades of difference, then, we may note in the expression of
   these views, all anticipate the deliverance of Israel, their
   restoration, and future pre-eminent glory, and they all connect these
   events with the coming of the Messiah. This was the promise' unto
   which, in their instant service night and day, the twelve tribes,'
   however grievously oppressed, hoped to come. [387] To this sure word of
   prophecy' the strangers scattered' throughout all lands would take
   heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place,' until the day
   dawned, and the day-star rose in their hearts. [388] It was this which
   gave meaning to their worship, filled them with patience in suffering,
   kept them separate from the nations around, and ever fixed their hearts
   and thoughts upon Jerusalem. For the Jerusalem' which was above was the
   mother' of them all. Yet a little while, and He that would come should
   come, and not tarry - and then all the blessing and glory would be
   theirs. At any moment the gladsome tidings might burst upon them, that
   He had come, when their glory would shine out from one end of the
   heavens to the other. All the signs of His Advent had come to pass.
   Perhaps, indeed, the Messiah might even now be there, ready to manifest
   Himself, so soon as the voice of Israel's repentance called Him from
   His hiding. Any hour might that banner be planted on the top of the
   mountains; that glittering sword be unsheathed; that trumpet sound.
   Closer then, and still closer, must be their connection with Jerusalem,
   as their salvation drew nigh; more earnest their longing, and more
   eager their gaze, till the dawn of that long expected day tinged the
   Eastern sky with its brightness.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [327] Jos. Ant. xiv. 10, passim; Acts xxii. 25-29.

   [328] Comp. Acts xix. 14 ix. 2.

   [329] Jos. Ant. xii. 2. 5; xiii. 3. 4; Ag. Ap.ii. 5; Ant. xiv. 16. 4;
   War v. 13.

   [330] Jos. War ii. 10. 4; ii. 17.

   [331] One of these tablets has lately been excavated. Comp. The Temple:
   its Ministry and Services in the Time of Christ,' p. 24.

   [332] War iv. 4. 3; comp. War ii. 17. 2-4.

   [333] War, vii. 3. 3.

   [334] War, vii. 5. 2.

   [335] Comp. generally Neubauer, Géogr. du Talmud, pp. 312, 313.

   [336] Acts x.28.

   [337] Comp. Rom. ii. 17-24.

   [338] Ber. iii. 3; Meg. i. 8; Moed K. iii. 4; Men. iii. 7. Comp. Jos.
   Ant. iv.8.13; and the tractate Mezuzah in Kirchheim, Septem libri
   Talmud. parvi Hierosol. pp. 12-17.

   [339] St. Matt. xxiii. 5; Ber. i. 3; Shabb. vi. 2; vii. 3; xvi. 1; Er.
   x. 1, 2; Sheq. iii. 2; Meg. i. 8; iv. 8; Moed. Q. iii. 4; Sanh. xi. 3;
   Men. iii. 7; iv. 1; Kel. xviii. 8; Miqv. x. 3; yad. iii. 3. Comp.
   Kirchheim, Tract. Tephillin, u. s. pp. 18-21.

   [340] Moed K. iii. 4; Eduy. iv. 10; Men. iii. 7; iv. 1. Comp.
   Kirchheim, Tract. Tsitsith, u. s. pp. 22-24.

   [341] The Tephillin enclosed a transcript of Exod. xiii. 1-10, 11-16;
   Deut. vi. 4-9; xi. 13-21. The Tsitsith were worn in obedience to the
   injunction in Num. xv. 37 etc.; Deut. xxii. 12 (comp. St. Matt. ix. 20;
   xiv. 36; St. Mark v. 27; St. Luke viii. 44).

   [342] It is remarkable that Aristeas seems to speak only of the
   phylacteries on the arm, and Philo of those for the head, while the
   LXX. takes the command entirely in a metaphorical sense. This has
   already been pointed out in that book of gigantic learning, Spencer, De
   Leg. Heb. p. 1213. Frankel (Uber d. Einfl. d. Pal. Exeg., pp. 89, 90)
   tries in vain to controvert the statement. The insufficiency of his
   arguments has been fully shown by Herzfeld (Gesch. d. Volk. Isr. vol.
   iii. p. 224).

   [343] Acts xv. 21.

   [344] sunagog Jos. Ant. xix. 6. 3; War, ii. 14. 4, 5; vii. 3. 3; Philo,
   Quod omnis probus liber, ed. Mangey, ii. p. 458; sunaggion Philo, Ad
   Caj. ii. p. 591; sabbateon Jos. Ant. xvi. 66. 2  proseuktrionPhilo,
   Vita Mosis, lib. iii., ii. p. 168.

   [345] Acts xvi.13

   [346] proseuch Jos. Ant. xiv. 10 23, life 54; Philo, In Flacc. ii. p.
   523; Ad Caj. ii. pp. 565, 596; Epiphan. Haer. 1xxx. 1. Comp. Juven.
   Sat. iii. 296: Ede ubi consistas? in qua te quæro proseucha?'

   [347] Comp., among others, Ovid, Ars Amat. i. 76; Juv. Sat. xvi. 96,
   97; Hor. Sat. i. 5. 100; 9. 70; Suet. Aug. 93.

   [348] Persius v. 180.

   [349] St. John iv. 20.

   [350] Comp. Jos. Ant. xiv. 7. 2; xvi. 6, passium; Philo, De Monarchia,
   ed. Mangey, ii. p. 224; Ad Caj. ii. p. 568; Contra Flacc. ii. p. 524.

   [351] Philo, De Monarchia, ii. p. 223.

   [352] Philo, in a fragment preserved in Euseb., Præpar. Ev. viii. 13.
   What the Temple was in the estimation of Israel, and what its loss
   boded, not only to them, but to the whole world, will be shown in a
   later part of this book.

   [353] War vi. 9. 3; comp. ii. 14. 3

   [354] Even Maimonides, in spite of his desire to minimise the Messianic
   expectancy, admits this.

   [355] This is the tenth of the eighteen (or rather nineteen)
   benedictions in the daily prayers. Of these the first and the last
   three are certainly the oldest. But this tenth also dates from before
   the destruction of Jerusalem. Comp. Zunz, Gottesd. Vortr. d. Juden, p.
   368.

   [356] Hos. xi. 11.

   [357] Midr. On Cant. i. 15, ed. Warshau, p. 11b.

   [358] Comp. Jer. Sanh. x. 6; Sanh. 110 b: Yalk. Shim.

   [359] The suggestion is made by Castelli, Il Messia, p. 253.

   [360] Notably in connection with Ex. Xii. 42 (both in the Pseudo-Jon.
   And Jer. Targum); Numb. xxiv. 7 (Jer. Targ.); Deut. xxx.4 (targ.
   Ps.-Jon.); Is xiv. 29; Jer. xxxiii. 13; Hos. xiv. 7; Zech. x. 6. Dr.
   Drummond, in his Jewish Messiah,' p. 335, quotes from the Targum on
   Lamentations. But this dates from long after the Talmudic period.

   [361] As each sentence which follows would necessitate one or more
   references to different works, the reader, who may be desirous to
   verify the statements in the text, is generally referred to Castelli,
   u. s. pp. 251-255.

   [362] Men. 53 b.

   [363] The fiction of two Messiahs - one the Son of David, the other the
   Son of Joseph, the latter being connected with the restoration of the
   ten tribes - has been conclusively shown to be the post-Christian date
   (comp. Schöttgen, Horæ Hebr. i. p. 359; and Wünsche, Leiden d. Mess. p.
   109). Possibly it was invented to find an explanation for Zech. xii. 10
   (comp. Succ. 52 a), just as the Socinian doctrine of the assumption of
   Christ into heaven at the beginning of His ministry was invented to
   account for St. John iii. 13.

   [364] Acts i.6.

   [365] Book of En. ch. lvii.; comp. xc.33.

   [366] B. iii. 286-294; comp. B. v. 414-433.

   [367] B. iii. 732-735.

   [368] B. iii. 766-783.

   [369] M. Maurice Vernes (Hist. Des Idées Messian. pp. 43-119) maintains
   that the writers of Enoch and Or. Sib. 3 expected this period under the
   rule of the Maccabees, and regarded one of them as the Messiah. It
   implies a peculiar reading of history, and a lively imagination, to
   arrive at such a conclusion.

   [370] Ps. of Sol. vxii. 50; comp. also Ps. xi.

   [371] Ps. Sal. xviii. 23.

   [372] v. 25.

   [373] v. 27.

   [374] v. 28.

   [375] vv. 30, 31.

   [376] Book of Jub. Ch. i.; comp. also ch. xxiii.

   [377] St. John ii. 19.

   [378] The doctrinal part of IV. Esdras may be said to be saturated with
   the dogma of original sin, which is wholly foreign to the theology
   alike of Rabbinic and Hellenistic Judaism. Comp. Vis. i. ch. iii. 21,
   22; iv. 30, 38; Vis. iii. ch. vi, 18, 19 (ed. Fritzsche, p. 607);
   33-41; vii. 46-48; viii. 34-35.

   [379] It almost seems as if there were a parallelism between this book
   and the Epistle to the Romans, which in its dogmatic part, seems
   successively to take up these three subjects, although from quite
   another point of view. How different the treatment is, need not be
   told.

   [380] Vis. vi. ch. xiii. 27-52.

   [381] The better reading is in tempore diei ejus. (v. 52).'

   [382] Prophet. et Ass. Mos. iv. 7-14; vii. 20.

   [383] Ap. Bar. xxvii. 22.

   [384] In Sanh. 110 b we read, Our Rabbis teach, that the Ten Tribes
   have no part in the era to come, because it is written "The Lord drave
   them out of their land in anger, and in wrath, and in great
   indignation, and cast them into another land." "The Lord drave them
   from their land" - in the present era - "and cast them into another
   land," in the era to come.' In curious agreement with this,
   Pseudo-Baruch writes to the nine and a half tribes to prepare their
   hearts to that which they had formerly believed,' least they should
   suffer in both eras (ab utroque soeculo),' being led captive in the
   one, and tormented in the other (Apoc. Bar. lxxxiii. 8).

   [385] Thus, for example, the assertion that there had been individuals
   who fulfilled the commandments of God, Vis. i. ch. iii. 36; the domain
   of reason, iv. 22; v. 9; general Messianic blessings to the world at
   large, Vis. i. ch. iv. 27, 28; the idea of a law within their minds,
   like that of which St. Paul speaks in the case of the heathen, Vis.
   iii. ch. vi. 45-47 (ed. Fritzsche, p. 609). These are only instances,
   and we refer besides to the general cast of the reasoning.

   [386] De Execrat. ed. Frcf. pp. 936, 937.

   [387] Acts xxvi. 7.

   [388] 2 Pet. i. 19.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER VII.
IN PALESTINE - JEWS AND GENTILES IN THE LAND' - THEIR MUTUAL RELATIONS AND
FEELINGS - THE WALL OF SEPARATION.'

   THE pilgrim who, leaving other countries, entered Palestine, must have
   felt as if he had crossed the threshold of another world. Manners,
   customs, institutions, law, life, nay, the very intercourse between man
   and man, were quite different. All was dominated by the one
   all-absorbing idea of religion. It penetrated every relation of life.
   Moreover, it was inseparably connected with the soil, as well as the
   people of Palestine, at least so long as the Temple stood. Nowhere else
   could the Shekhinah dwell or manifest itself; nor could, unless under
   exceptional circumstances, and for the merit of the fathers,' the
   spirit of prophecy be granted outside its bounds. To the orthodox Jew
   the mental and spiritual horizon was bounded by Palestine. It was the
   land'; all the rest of the world, except Babylonia, was outside the
   land.' No need to designate it specially as holy;' for all here bore
   the impress of sanctity, as he understood it. Not that the soil itself,
   irrespective of the people, was holy; it was Israel that made it such.
   For, had not God given so many commandments and ordinances, some of
   them apparently needless, simply to call forth the righteousness of
   Israel; [389] did not Israel possess the merits of the fathers,' [390]
   and specially that of Abraham, itself so valuable that, even if his
   descendants had, morally speaking, been as a dead body, his merit would
   have been imputed to them? [391] More than that, God had created the
   world on account of Israel, [392] and for their merit, making
   preparation for them long before their appearance on the scene, just as
   a king who foresees the birth of his son; nay, Israel had been in God's
   thoughts not only before anything had actually been created, but even
   before every other creative thought. [393] If these distinctions seem
   excessive, they were, at least, not out of proportion to the estimate
   formed of Israel's merits. In theory, the latter might be supposed to
   flow from good works,' of course, including the strict practice of
   legal piety, and from study of the law.' But in reality it was study'
   alone to which such supreme merit attached. Practice required knowledge
   for its direction; such as the Am-ha-arets (country people,' plebeians,
   in the Jewish sense of being unlearned) could not possess, [394] who
   had bartered away the highest crown for a spade with which to dig. And
   the school of Arum' - the sages - the great ones of the world' had long
   settled it, that study was before works. [395] And how could it well be
   otherwise, since the studies, which engaged His chosen children on
   earth, equally occupied their Almighty Father in heaven? [396] Could
   anything, then, be higher than the peculiar calling of Israel, or
   better qualify them for being the sons of God?

   It is necessary to transport oneself into this atmosphere to understand
   the views entertained at the time of Jesus, or to form any conception
   of their infinite contrast in spirit to the new doctrine. The
   abhorrence, not unmingled with contempt, of all Gentile ways, thoughts
   and associations; the worship of the letter of the Law; the
   self-righteousness, and pride of descent, and still more of knowledge,
   become thus intelligible to us, and, equally so, the absolute
   antagonism to the claims of a Messiah, so unlike themselves and their
   own ideal. His first announcement might, indeed, excite hope, soon felt
   to have been vain; and His miracles might startle for a time. But the
   boundary lines of the Kingdom which He traced were essentially
   different from those which they had fixed, and within which they had
   arranged everything, alike for the present and the future. Had He been
   content to step within them, to complete and realise what they had
   indicated, it might have been different. Nay, once admit their
   fundamental ideas, and there was much that was beautiful, true, and
   even grand in the details. But it was exactly in the former that the
   divergence lay. Nor was there any possibility of reform or progress
   here. The past, the present, and the future, alike as regarded the
   Gentile world and Israel, were irrevocably fixed; or rather, it might
   almost be said, there were not such - all continuing as they had been
   from the creation of the world, nay, long before it. The Torah had
   really existed 2,000 years before Creation; [397] the patriarchs had
   had their Academies of study, and they had known and observed all the
   ordinances; and traditionalism had the same origin, both as to time and
   authority, as the Law itself. As for the heathen nations, the Law had
   been offered by God to them, but refused, and even their after
   repentance would prove hypocritical, as all their excuses would be
   shown to be futile. But as for Israel, even though their good deeds
   should be few, yet, by cumulating them from among all the people, they
   would appear great in the end, and God would exact payment for their
   sins as a man does from his friends, taking little sums at a time. It
   was in this sense, that the Rabbis employed that sublime figure,
   representing the Church as one body, of which all the members suffered
   and joyed together, which St. Paul adopted and applied in a vastly
   different and spiritual sense. [398]

   If, on the one hand, the pre-eminence of Israel depended on the Land,
   and, on the other, that of the Land on the presence of Israel in it,
   the Rabbinical complaint was, indeed, well grounded, that its
   boundaries were becoming narrow.' We can scarcely expect any accurate
   demarcation of them, since the question, what belonged to it, was
   determined by ritual and theological, not by geographical
   considerations. Not only the immediate neighborhood (as in the case of
   Ascalon), but the very wall of a city (as of Acco and of Cæsarea) might
   be Palestinian, and yet the city itself be regarded as outside' the
   sacred limits. All depended on who had originally possessed, and now
   held a place, and hence what ritual obligations lay upon it. Ideally,
   as we may say, the land of promise' included all which God had
   covenanted to give to Israel, although never yet actually possessed by
   them. Then, in a more restricted sense, the land' comprised what they
   who came up from Egypt took possession of, from Chezib [about three
   hours north of Acre] and unto the river [Euphrates], and unto Amanah.'
   This included, of course, the conquests made by David in the most
   prosperous times of the Jewish commonwealth, supposed to have extended
   over Mesopotamia, Syria, Zobah, Achlah, &c. To all these districts the
   general name of Soria, or Syria, was afterwards given. This formed, at
   the time of which we write, a sort of inner band around the land,' in
   its narrowest and only real sense; just as the countries in which
   Israel was specially interested, such as Egypt, Babylon, Ammon, and
   Moab, formed an outer band. These lands were heathen, and yet not quite
   heathen, since the dedication of the so-called Terumoth, or
   first-fruits in a prepared state, was expected from them, while Soria
   shared almost all the obligations of Palestine, except those of the
   second tithes,' and the fourth year's product of plants. [399] But the
   wavesheaf at the Paschal Feast, and the two loaves at Pentecost, could
   only be brought from what had grown on the holy soil itself. This
   latter was roughly defined, as all which they who came up from Babylon
   took possession of, in the land of Israel, and unto Chezib.' Viewed in
   this light, there was a special significance in the fact that Antioch,
   where the name Christian' first marked the new Sect' which had sprung
   up in Palestine, [400] and where the first Gentile Church was formed,
   [401] lay just outside the northern boundary of the land.' Similarly,
   we understand, why those Jewish zealots who would fain have imposed on
   the new Church the yoke of the Law, [402] concentrated their first
   efforts on that Syria which was regarded as a kind of outer Palestine.

   But, even so, there was a gradation of sanctity in the Holy Land
   itself, in accordance with ritual distinctions. Ten degrees are here
   enumerated, beginning with the bare soil of Palestine, and culminating
   in the Most Holy Place in the Temple - each implying some ritual
   distinction, which did not attach to a lower degree. And yet, although
   the very dust of heathen soil was supposed to carry defilement, like
   corruption or the grave, the spots most sacred were everywhere
   surrounded by heathenism; nay, its traces were visible in Jerusalem
   itself. The reasons of this are to be sought in the political
   circumstances of Palestine, and in the persistent endeavour of its
   rulers - with the exception of a very brief period under the Maccabees
   - to Grecianise the country, so as to eradicate that Jewish
   particularism which must always be antagonistic to every foreign
   element. In general, Palestine might be divided into the strictly
   Jewish territory, and the so-called Hellenic cities. The latter had
   been built at different periods, and were politically constituted after
   the model of the Greek cities, having their own senates (generally
   consisting of several hundred persons) and magistrates, each city with
   its adjoining territory forming a sort of commonwealth of its own. But
   it must not be imagined, that these districts were inhabited
   exclusively, or even chiefly, by Greeks. One of these groups, that
   towards Peræa, was really Syrian, and formed part of Syria Decapolis;
   [403] while the other, along the coast of the Mediterranean, was
   Phoenician. Thus the land' was hemmed in, east and west, within its own
   borders, while south and north stretched heathen or semi-heathen
   districts. The strictly Jewish territory consisted of Judæa proper, to
   which Galilee, Samaria and Peræa were joined as Toparchies. These
   Toparchies consisted of a group of townships, under a Metropolis. The
   villages and townships themselves had neither magistrates of their own,
   nor civic constitution, nor lawful popular assemblies. Such civil
   adminstration as they required devolved on Scribes' (the so-called
   komogrammates or topogrammates). Thus Jerusalem was really, as well as
   nominally, the capital of the whole land. Judæa itself was arranged
   into eleven, or rather, more exactly, into nine Toparchies, of which
   Jerusalem was the chief. While, therefore, the Hellenic cities were
   each independent of the other, the whole Jewish territory formed only
   one Civitas.' Rule, government, tribute - in short, political life -
   centred in Jerusalem.

   But this is not all. From motives similar to those which led to the
   founding of other Hellenic cities, Herod the Great and his immediate
   successors built a number of towns, which were inhabited chiefly by
   Gentiles, and had independent constitutions, like those of the Hellenic
   cities. Thus, Herod himself built Sebaste (Samaria), in the centre of
   the country; Cæsarea in the west, commanding the sea-coast; Gaba in
   Galilee, close to the great plain of Esdraelon; and Esbonitis in Peræa.
   [404] Similarly, Philip the Tetrarch built Cæsarea Philippi and Julias
   (Bethsaida-Julias, on the western shore of the lake); and Herod Antipas
   another Julias, and Tiberias. [405] The object of these cities was
   twofold. As Herod, well knowing his unpopularity, surrounded himself by
   foreign mercenaries, and reared fortresses around his palace and the
   Temple which he built, so he erected these fortified posts, which he
   populated with strangers, as so many outworks, to surround and command
   Jerusalem and the Jews on all sides. Again, as, despite his profession
   of Judaism, he reared magnificent heathen temples in honour of Augustus
   at Sebaste and Cæsarea, so those cities were really intended to form
   centres of Grecian influence within the sacred territory itself. At the
   same time, the Herodian cities enjoyed not the same amount of liberty
   as the Hellenic,' which, with the exception of certain imposts, were
   entirely self-governed, while in the former there were representatives
   of the Herodian rulers. [406]

   Although each of these towns and districts had its special deities and
   rites, some being determined by local traditions, their prevailing
   character may be described as a mixture of Greek and Syrian worship,
   the former preponderating, as might be expected. [407] On the other
   hand, Herod and his successors encouraged the worship of the Emperor
   and of Rome, which, characteristically, was chiefly practised in the
   East. [408] Thus, in the temple which Herod built to Augustus in
   Cæsarea, there were statues of the Emperor as Olympian Zeus, and of
   Rome as Hera. [409] He was wont to excuse this conformity to heathenism
   before his own people on the ground of political necessity. Yet, even
   if his religious inclinations had not been in that direction, he would
   have earnestly striven to Grecianise the people. Not only in Cæsarea,
   but even in Jerusalem, he built a theatre and amphitheatre, where at
   great expense games were held every four years in honour of Augustus.
   [410] Nay, he placed over the great gate of Temple at Jerusalem a
   massive golden eagle, the symbol of Roman dominion, as a sort of
   counterpart to that gigantic golden vine, the symbol of Israel, which
   hung above the entrance to the Holy Place. These measures, indeed, led
   to popular indignation, and even to conspiracies and tumults, [411]
   though not of the same general and intense character, as when, at a
   later period, Pilate sought to introduce into Jerusalem images of the
   Emperor, or when the statue of Caligula was to be placed in the Temple.
   In connection with this, it is curious to notice that the Talmud, while
   on the whole disapproving of attendance at theatres and amphitheatres -
   chiefly on the ground that it implies sitting in the seat of scorners,'
   and might involve contributions to the maintenance of idol-worship -
   does not expressly prohibit it, nor indeed speak very decidedly on the
   subject. [412]

   The views of the Rabbis in regard to pictorial representations are
   still more interesting, as illustrating their abhorrence of all contact
   with idolatry. We mark here differences at two, if not at three
   periods, according to the outward circumstances of the people. The
   earliest and strictest opinions [413] absolutely forbade any
   representation of things in heaven, on earth, or in the waters. But the
   Mishnah [414] seems to relax these prohibitions by subtle distinctions,
   which are still further carried out in the Talmud. [415]

   To those who held such stringent views, it must have been peculiarly
   galling to see their most sacred feelings openly outraged by their own
   rulers. Thus, the Asmonean princess, Alexandra, the mother-in-law of
   Herod, could so far forget the traditions of her house, as to send
   portraits of her son and daughter to Mark Antony for infamous purposes,
   in hope of thereby winning him for her ambitious plans. [416] One would
   be curious to know who painted these pictures, for, when the statue of
   Caligula was to be made for the Temple at Jerusalem, no native artist
   could be found, and the work was entrusted to Phoenicians. It must have
   been these foreigners also who made the figures,' with which Herod
   adorned his palace at Jerusalem, and the brazen statues' in the gardens
   through which the water ran out,' [417] as well as the colossal statues
   at Cæsarea, and those of the three daughters of Agrippa, which after
   his death [418] were so shamefully abused by the soldiery at Sebaste
   and Cæsarea. [419]

   This abhorrence of all connected with idolatry, and the contempt
   entertained for all that was non-Jewish, will in great measure explain
   the code of legislation intended to keep the Jew and Gentile apart. If
   Judæa had to submit to the power of Rome, it could at least avenge
   itself in the Academies of its sages. Almost innumerable stories are
   told in which Jewish sages, always easily, confute Roman and Greek
   philosophers; and others, in which even a certain Emperor (Antoninus)
   is represented as constantly in the most menial relation of
   self-abasement before a Rabbi. [420] Rome, which was the fourth beast
   of Daniel, [421] would in the age to come, [422] when Jerusalem would
   be the metropolis of all lands, [423] be the first to excuse herself on
   false though vain pleas for her wrongs to Israel. [424] But on wordly
   grounds also, Rome was contemptible, having derived her language and
   writing from the Greeks, and not possessing even a hereditary
   succession in her empire. [425] If such was the estimate of dreaded
   Rome, it may be imagined in what contempt other nations were held. Well
   might the earth tremble,' [426] for, if Israel had not accepted the Law
   at Sinai, the whole world would have been destroyed, while it once more
   was still' when that [427] happy event took place, although God in a
   manner forced Israel to it. And so Israel was purified at Mount Sinai
   from the impurity which clung to our race in consequence of the unclean
   union between Eve and the serpent, and which still adhered to all other
   nations! [428]

   To begin with, every Gentile child, so soon as born, was to be regarded
   as unclean. Those who actually worshipped mountains, hills, bushes, &c.
   - in short, gross idolaters - should be cut down with the sword. But as
   it was impossible to exterminate heathenism, Rabbinic legislation kept
   certain definite objects in view, which may be thus summarised: To
   prevent Jews from being inadvertently led into idolatry; to avoid all
   participation in idolatry; not to do anything which might aid the
   heathen in their worship; and, beyond all this, not to give pleasure,
   nor even help, to heathens. The latter involved a most dangerous
   principle, capable of almost indefinite application by fanaticism. Even
   the Mishnah goes so far [429] as to forbid aid to a mother in the hour
   of her need, or nourishment to her babe, in order not to bring up a
   child for idolatry! [430] But this is not all. Heathens were, indeed,
   not to be precipitated into danger, but yet not to be delivered from
   it. Indeed, an isolated teacher ventures even upon this statement: The
   best among the Gentiles, kill; the best among serpents, crush its
   head.' [431] Still more terrible was the fanaticism which directed,
   that heretics, traitors, and those who had left the Jewish faith should
   be thrown into actual danger, and, if they were in it, all means for
   their escape removed. No intercourse of any kind was to be had with
   such - not even to invoke their medical aid in case of danger to life,
   [432] since it was deemed, that he who had to do with heretics was
   imminent peril of becoming one himself, [433] and that, if a heretic
   returned to the true faith, he should die at once - partly, probably,
   to expiate his guilt, and partly from fear of relapse. Terrible as all
   this sounds, it was probably not worse than the fanaticism displayed in
   what are called more enlightened times. Impartial history must
   chronicle it, however painful, to show the circumstances in which
   teaching so far different was propounded by Christ. [434]

   In truth, the bitter hatred which the Jew bore to the Gentile can only
   be explained from the estimate entertained of his character. The most
   vile, and even unnatural, crimes were imputed to them. It was not safe
   to leave cattle in their charge, to allow their women to nurse infants,
   or their physicians to attend the sick, nor to walk in their company,
   without taking precautions against sudden and unprovoked attacks. They
   should, so far as possible, be altogether avoided, except in cases of
   necessity or for the sake of business. They and theirs were defiled;
   their houses unclean, as containing idols or things dedicated to them;
   their feasts, their joyous occasions, their very contact, was polluted
   by idolatry; and there was no security, if a heathen were left alone in
   a room, that he might not, in wantonness or by carelessness, defile the
   wine or meat on the table, or the oil and wheat in the store. Under
   such circumstances, therefore, everything must be regarded as having
   been rendered unclean. Three days before a heathen festival (according
   to some, also three days after) every business transaction with them
   was prohibited, for fear of giving either help or pleasure. Jews were
   to avoid passing through a city where there was an idolatrous feast -
   nay, they were not even to sit down within the shadow of a tree
   dedicated to idol-worship. Its wood was polluted; if used in baking,
   the bread was unclean; if a shuttle had been made of it, not only was
   all cloth woven on it forbidden, but if such had been inadvertently
   mixed with other pieces of cloth, or a garment made from it placed with
   other garments, the whole became unclean. Jewish workmen were not to
   assist in building basilicas, nor stadia, nor places where judicial
   sentences were pronounced by the heathen. Of course, it was not lawful
   to let houses or fields, nor to sell cattle to them. Milk drawn by a
   heathen, if a Jew had not been present to watch it, [435] bread and oil
   prepared by them, were unlawful. Their wine was wholly interdicted
   [436] - the mere touch of a heathen polluted a whole cask; nay, even to
   put one's nose to heathen wine was strictly prohibited!

   Painful as these details are, they might be multiplied. And yet the
   bigotry of these Rabbis was, perhaps, not worse than that of other
   sectaries. It was a painful logical necessity of their system, against
   which their heart, no doubt, often rebelled; and, it must be truthfully
   added, it was in measure accounted for by the terrible history of
   Israel.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [389] Mac. 23 b.

   [390] Rosh HaSh. 11 a.

   [391] Ber. R. 44.

   [392] Yalkut §2.

   [393] Ber. R. 1.

   [394] Comp. Ab. ii. 5

   [395] Jer. Chag. i. hal. 7, towards the end; Jer. Pes. iii.7.

   [396] Ab. Z. 3 b.

   [397] Shir haShir. R. on Cant. v. 11, ed Warshau, p. 26b.

   [398] Eph. iv. 16.

   [399] Lev. xix. 24.

   [400] Acts xi. 26.

   [401] Acts xi. 20, 21.

   [402] Acts xv.1.

   [403] The following cities probably formed the Decapolis, though it is
   difficult to feel quite sure in reference to one or the other of them:
   Damascus, Philadelphia, Raphana, Scythopolis, Gadara, Hippos Dion,
   Pella, Gerasa, and Canatha. On these cities, comp. Caspari, Chronol.
   Geogr. Einl. in d. Leben J. Christ, pp. 83-90.

   [404] Herod rebuilt or built other cities, such as Antipatris, Cypros,
   Phasaelis, Anthedon, &c. Schürer describes the two first as built, but
   they were only rebuilt or fortified (comp. Ant. xiii. 15. 1; War i. 21.
   8.) by Herod.

   [405] He also rebuilt Sepphoris.

   [406] Comp. on the subject of the civic institutions of the Roman
   Empire, Kuhn, Die Städt. u. bürgerl. Verf. d. Röm. Reichs, 2 vols.; and
   for this part. vol. ii. pp. 336-354, and pp. 370-372.

   [407] A good sketch of the various rites prevailing in different places
   is given by Schürer, Neutest. Zeitg. pp. 378-385.

   [408] Comp. Weiseler, Beitr. z richt. Wur dig. d. Evang. pp. 90, 91.

   [409] Jos. Ant. xv. 9. 6; War i. 21. 5-8.

   [410] The Actian games took place every fifth year, three years always
   intervening. The games in Jerusalem were held in the year 28 b.c. (Jos.
   Ant. xv. 8. 1); the first games in Cæsarea in the year 12 b.c. (Ant.
   xvi. 5. 1; comp. War. i. 21. 8).

   [411] Ant. xv. 8. 1-4; xvii. 6. 2.

   [412] So at least in a Boraitha. Comp. the discussion and the very
   curious arguments in favour of attendance in Ab. Zar. 18 b, and
   following.

   [413] Mechilta on Ex. xx. 4 ed. Weiss, p. 75 a.

   [414] Ab. Zar. iii.

   [415] For a full statement of the Talmudical views as to images,
   representations on coins, and the most ancient Jewish coins, see
   Appendix III.

   [416] Jos. Ant. xv. 2, 5 and 6.

   [417] Jos. War v. 4. 4.

   [418] Acts xii. 23.

   [419] Ant. xix. 9. l.

   [420] Comp. here the interesting tractate of Dr. Bodek, Marc. Aur.
   Anton. als Freund u. Zeitgenosse des R. Jehuda ha Nasi.'

   [421] Dan. vii. 23.

   [422] The Athidlabho, sæculum futurum,' to be distinguished from the
   Olam habba, the world to come.'

   [423] Midr. R. on Ex. Par. 23.

   [424] Ab. Z. 2 b.

   [425] Ab. Z. 10 a; Gitt. 80 a.

   [426] Ps. lxxvi. 9.

   [427] Shabb. 88 a.

   [428] Ab. Z. 22 b. But as in what follows the quotations would be too
   numerous, they will be omitted. Each statement, however, advanced in
   the text or notes is derived from part of the Talmudic tractate Abodah
   Zarah.

   [429] Ab. Z. ii. 1.

   [430] The Talmud declares it only lawful if done to avoid exciting
   hatred against the Jews.

   [431] Mechilta, ed. Weiss, p. 33 b, line 8 from top.

   [432] There is a well-known story told of a Rabbi who was bitten by a
   serpent, and about to be cured by the invocation of the name of Jesus
   by a Jewish Christian, which was, however, interdicted.

   [433] Yet, such is the moral obliquity, that even idolatry is allowed
   to save life, provided it be done in secret!

   [434] Against this, although somewhat doubtfully, such concessions may
   be put as that, outside Palestine, Gentiles were not to be considered
   as idolators, but as observing the customs of their fathers (Chull. 13
   b), and that the poor of the Gentiles were to be equally supported with
   those of Israel, their sick visited, and their dead buried; it being,
   however, significantly added, on account of the arrangements of the
   world' (Gitt. 61 a). The quotation so often made (Ab. Z. 3 a), that a
   Gentile who occupied himself with the Torah was to be regarded as equal
   to the High-Priest, proves nothing, since in the case supposed the
   Gentile acts like a Rabbinic Jew. But, and this is a more serious
   point, it is difficult to believe that those who make this quotation
   are not aware, how the Talmud (Ab. Z. 3 a) immediately labours to prove
   that their reward is not equal to that of Israelites. A somewhat
   similar charge of one-sideness, if not of unfairness, must be brought
   against Deutsch (Lecture on the Talmud, Remains, pp. 146, 147), whose
   sketch of Judaism should be compared, for example, with the first Perek
   of the Talmudic tractate Abodah Zarah.

   [435] Ab. Zar. 35 b.

   [436] According to R. Asi, there was a threefold distinction. If wine
   had been dedicated to an idol, to carry, even on a stick, so much as
   the weight of an olive of it, defiled a man. Other wine, if prepared by
   a heathen, was prohibited, whether for personal use or for trading.
   Lastly, wine prepared by a Jew, but deposited in custody of a Gentile,
   was prohibited for personal use, but allowed for traffic.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER VIII.
TRADITIONALISM, ITS ORIGIN, CHARACTER, AND LITERATURE - THE MISHNAH AND TALMUD -
THE GOSPEL OF CHRIST - THE DAWN OF A NEW DAY.

   In trying to picture to ourselves New Testament scenes, the figure most
   prominent, next to those of the chief actors, is that of the Scribe
   ({hebrew}, grammates, literatus). He seems ubiquitous; we meet him in
   Jerusalem, in Judæa, and even in Galilee. [437] Indeed, he is
   indispensable, not only in Babylon, which may have been the birthplace
   of his order, but among the dispersion' also. [438] Everywhere he
   appears as the mouthpiece and representative of the people; he pushes
   to the front, the crowd respectfully giving way, and eagerly hanging on
   his utterances, as those of a recognised authority. He has been
   solemnly ordained by the laying on of hands; and is the Rabbi, [439] my
   great one,' Master, amplitudo. He puts questions; he urges objections;
   he expects full explanations and respectful demeanour. Indeed, his
   hyper-ingenuity in questioning has become a proverb. There is not
   measure of his dignity, nor yet limit to his importance. He is the
   lawyer,' [440] the well-plastered pit,' [441] filled with the water of
   knowledge out of which not a drop can escape,' [442] in opposition to
   the weeds of untilled soil' {hebrew} of ignorance. [443] He is the
   Divine aristocrat, among the vulgar herd of rude and profane
   country-people,' who know not the Law' and are cursed.' More than that,
   his order constitutes the ultimate authority on all questions of faith
   and practice; he is the Exegete of the Laws,' [444] the teacher of the
   Law,' [445] and along with the chief priests' and elders' a judge in
   the eccesiastical tribunals, whether of the capital or in the
   provinces. [446] Although generally appearing in company with the
   Pharisees,' he is not necessarily one of them - for they represent a
   religious party, while he has a status, and holds an office. [447] In
   short, he is the Talmid or learned student, the Chakham or sage, whose
   honour is to be great in the future world. Each Scribe outweighed all
   the common people, who must accordingly pay him every honour. Nay, they
   were honoured of God Himself, and their praises proclaimed by the
   angels; and in heaven also, each of them would hold the same rank and
   distinction as on earth. [448] Such was to be the respect paid to their
   sayings, that they were to be absolutely believed, even if they were to
   declare that to be at the right hand which was at the left, or vice
   versâ. [449]

   An institution which had attained such proportions, and wielded such
   power, could not have been of recent growth. In point of fact, its rise
   was very gradual, and stretched back to the time of Nehemiah, if not
   beyond it. Although from the utter confusion of historical notices in
   Rabbinic writings and their constant practice of antedating events, it
   is impossible to furnish satisfactory details, the general development
   of the institution can be traced with sufficient precision. If Ezra is
   described in Holy Writ [450] as a ready (expertus) Scribe,' who had set
   his heart to seek (seek out the full meaning of) the law of the Lord,
   and to do it, and to teach in Israel,' [451] this might indicate to his
   successors, the Sopherim (Scribes), the threefold direction which their
   studies afterwards took: the Midrash, the Halakhah, and the Haggadah,
   [452] [453] of which the one pointed to Scriptural investigation, the
   other to what was to be observed, and the third to oral teaching in the
   widest sense. But Ezra left his work uncompleted. On Nehemiah's second
   arrival in Palestine, he found matters again in a state of utmost
   confusion. [454] He must have felt the need of establishing some
   permanent authority to watch over religious affairs. This we take to
   have been the Great Assembly,' or, as it is commonly called, the Great
   Synagogue.' It is impossible with certainty to determine, [455] either
   who composed this assembly, or of how many members it consisted. [456]
   Probably it comprised the leading men in Church and State, the chief
   priests, elders, and judges' - the latter two classes including the
   Scribes,' if, indeed, that order was already separately organised.
   [457] Probably also the term Great Assembly' refers rather to a
   succession of men than to one Synod; the ingenuity of later times
   filling such parts of the historical canvas as had been left blank with
   fictitious notices. In the nature of things such an assembly could not
   exercise permanent sway in a sparsely populated country, without a
   strong central authority. Nor could they have wielded real power during
   the political difficulties and troubles of foreign domination. The
   oldest tradition [458] sums up the result of their activity in this
   sentence ascribed to them: Be careful in judgment, set up many
   Talmidim, and make a hedge about the Torah (Law).'

   In the course of time this rope of sand dissolved. The High-Priest,
   Simon the Just, [459] is already designated as of the remnants of the
   Great Assembly.' But even this expression does not necessarily imply
   that he actually belonged to it. In the troublous times which followed
   his Pontificate, the sacred study seems to have been left to solitary
   individuals. The Mishnic tractate Aboth, which records the sayings of
   the Fathers,' here gives us only the name of Antigonus of Socho. It is
   significant, that for the first time we now meet a Greek name among
   Rabbinic authorities, together with an indistinct allusion to his
   disciples. [460] [461] The long interval between Simon the Just and
   Antigonus and his disciples, brings us to the terrible time of
   Antiochus Epiphanes and the great Syrian persecution. The very sayings
   attributed to these two sound like an echo of the political state of
   the country. On three things, Simon was wont to say, the permanency of
   the (Jewish?) world depends: on the Torah (faithfulness to the Law and
   its pursuit), on worship (the non-participation in Grecianism), and on
   works of righteousness. [462] They were dark times, when God's
   persecuted people were tempted to think, that it might be vain to serve
   Him, in which Antigonus had it: Be not like servants who serve their
   master for the sake of reward, but be like servants who serve their
   lord without a view to the getting of reward, and let the fear of
   heaven be upon you.' [463] After these two names come those of the
   so-called five Zugoth, or couples,' of whom Hillel and Shammai are the
   last. Later tradition has represented these successive couples as,
   respectively, the Nasi (president), and Ab-beth-din (vice-president, of
   the Sanhedrin). Of the first three of these couples' it may be said
   that, except significant allusions to the circumstances and dangers of
   their times, their recorded utterances clearly point to the development
   of purely Sopheric teaching, that is, to the Rabbinistic part of their
   functions. From the fourth couple,' which consists of Simon ben
   Shetach, who figured so largely in the political history of the later
   Maccabees [464] (as Ab-beth-din), and his superior in learning and
   judgment, Jehudah ben Tabbai (as Nasi), we have again utterances which
   show, in harmony with the political history of the time, that judicial
   functions had been once more restored to the Rabbis. The last of five
   couples brings us to the time of Herod and of Christ.

   We have seen that, during the period of severe domestic troubles,
   beginning with the persecutions under the Seleucidæ, which marked the
   mortal struggle between Judaism and Grecianism, the Great Assembly' had
   disappeared from the scene. The Sopherim had ceased to be a party in
   power. They had become the Zeqenim, Elders,' whose task was purely
   ecclesiastical - the preservation of their religion, such as the
   dogmatic labours of their predecessors had made it. Yet another period
   opened with the advent of the Maccabees. These had been raised into
   power by the enthusiasm of the Chasidim, or pious ones,' who formed the
   nationalist party in the land, and who had gathered around the
   liberators of their faith and country. But the later bearing of the
   Maccabees had alienated the nationalists. Henceforth they sink out of
   view, or, rather, the extreme section of them merged in the extreme
   section of the Pharisees, till fresh national calamities awakened a new
   nationalist party. Instead of the Chasidim, we see now two religious
   parties within the Synagogue - the Pharisees and the Sadducees. The
   latter originally represented a reaction from the Pharisees - the
   modern men, who sympathised with the later tendencies of the Maccabees.
   Josephus places the origin of these two schools in the time of
   Jonathan, the successor of Judas Maccabee, [465] and with this other
   Jewish notices agree. Jonathan accepted from the foreigner (the Syrian)
   the High-Priestly dignity, and combined with it that of secular ruler.
   But this is not all. The earlier Maccabees surrounded themselves with a
   governing eldership. [466] [467] On the coins of their reigns this is
   designated as the Chebher, or eldership (association) of the Jews.
   Thus, theirs was what Josephus designates as an aristocratic
   government, [468] and of which he somewhat vaguely says, that it lasted
   from the Captivity until the descendants of the Asmoneans set up kingly
   government.' In this aristocratic government the High-Priest would
   rather be the chief of a representative ecclesiastical body of rulers.
   This state of things continued until the great breach between Hycanus,
   the fourth from Judas Maccabee, and the Pharisaical party, [469] which
   is equally recorded by Josephus [470] and the Talmud, [471] with only
   variations of names and details. The dispute apparently arose from the
   desire of the Pharisees, that Hycanus should be content with the
   secular power, and resign the Pontificate. But it ended in the
   persecution, and removal from power, of the Pharisees. Very
   significantly, Jewish tradition introduces again at this time those
   purely ecclesiastical authorities which are designated as the couples.'
   [472] In accordance with this, altered state of things, the name
   Chebher' now disappears from the coins of the Maccabees, and Rabbinical
   celebrities (the couples' or Zugoth) are only teachers of
   traditionalism, and ecclesiastical authorities. The eldership,' [473]
   which under the earlier Maccabees was called the tribunal of the
   Asmoneans.' [474] [475] now passed into the Sanhedrin. [476] [477] Thus
   we place the origin of this institution about the time of Hyrcanus.
   With this Jewish tradition fully agrees. [478] The power of the
   Sanhedrin would, of course, vary with political circumstances, being at
   times almost absolute, as in the reign of the Pharisaic devotee-Queen,
   Alexandra, while at others it was shorn of all but ecclesiastical
   authority. But as the Sanhedrin was in full force at the time of Jesus,
   its organization will claim our attention in the sequel.

   After this brief outline of the origin and development of an
   institution which exerted such decisive influence on the future of
   Israel, it seems necessary similarly to trace the growth of the
   traditions of the Elders,' so as to understand what, alas! so
   effectually, opposed the new doctrine of the Kingdom. The first place
   must here be assigned to those legal determinations, which
   traditionalism declared absolutely binding on all - not only of equal,
   but even greater obligation than Scripture itself. [479] And this not
   illogically, since tradition was equally of Divine origin with Holy
   Scripture, and authoritatively explained its meaning; supplemented it;
   gave it application to cases not expressly provided for, perhaps not
   even forseen in Biblical times; and generally guarded its sanctity by
   extending and adding to its provisions, drawing a hedge,' around its
   garden enclosed.' Thus, in new and dangerous circumstances, would the
   full meaning of God's Law, to its every title and iota, be elicited and
   obeyed. Thus also would their feet be arrested, who might stray from
   within, or break in from without. Accordingly, so important was
   tradition, that the greatest merit a Rabbi could claim was the
   strictest adherence to the traditions, which he had received from his
   teacher. Nor might one Sanhedrin annul, or set aside, the decrees of
   its predecessors. To such length did they go in this worship of the
   letter, that the great Hillel was actually wont to mispronounce a word,
   because his teacher before him had done so. [480]

   These traditional ordinances, as already stated, bear the general name
   of the Halakhah, as indicating alike the way in which the fathers had
   walked, and that which their children were bound to follow. [481] These
   Halakhoth were either simply the laws laid down in Scripture; or else
   derived from, or traced to it by some ingenious and artificial method
   of exegesis; or added to it, by way of amplification and for safety's
   sake; or, finally, legalized customs. They provided for every possible
   and impossible case, entered into every detail of private, family, and
   public life; and with iron logic, unbending rigour, and most minute
   analysis pursued and dominated man, turn whither he might, laying on
   him a yoke which was truly unbearable. The return which it offered was
   the pleasure and distinction of knowledge, the acquisition of
   righteousness, and the final attainment of rewards; one of its chief
   advantages over our modern traditionalism, that it was expressly
   forbidden to draw inferences from these traditions, which should have
   the force of fresh legal determinations. [482]

   In describing the historical growth of the Halakhah, [483] we may
   dismiss in a few sentences the legends of Jewish tradition about
   patriarchal times. They assure us, that there was an Academy and a
   Rabbinic tribunal of Shem, and they speak of traditions delivered by
   that Patriarch to Jacob; of diligent attendance by the latter on the
   Rabbinic College; of a tractate (in 400 sections) on idolatry by
   Abraham, and of his observance of the whole traditional law; of the
   introduction of the three daily times of prayer, successively by
   Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; of the three benedictions in the customary
   grace at meat,' as propounded by Moses, Joshua, and David and Solomon;
   of the Mosaic introduction of the practice of reading lessons from the
   law on Sabbaths, New Moons, and Feast Days, and even on the Mondays and
   Thursdays; and of that, by the same authority, of preaching on the
   three great festivals about those feasts. Further, they ascribe to
   Moses the arrangement of the priesthood into eight courses (that
   intosixteen to Samuel, and that into twenty-four to David), as also,
   the duration of the time for marriage festivities, and for mourning.
   But evidently these are vague statements, with the object of tracing
   traditionalism and its observances to primaeval times, even as legend
   had it, that Adam was born circumcised, [484] and later writers that he
   had kept all the ordinances.

   But other principles apply to the traditions, from Moses downwards.
   According to the Jewish view, God had given Moses on Mount Sinai alike
   the oral and the written Law, that is, the Law with all its
   interpretations and applications. From Ex. xx. 1, it was inferred, that
   God had communicated to Moses the Bible, the Mishnah, and Talmud, and
   the Haggadah, even to that which scholars would in latest times
   propound. [485] In answer to the somewhat natural objection, why the
   Bible alone had been written, it was said that Moses had proposed to
   write down all the teaching entrusted to him, but the Almighty had
   refused, on account of the future subjection of Israel to the nations,
   who would take from them the written Law. Then the unwritten traditions
   would remain to separate between Israel and the Gentiles. Popular
   exegesis found this indicated even in the language of prophecy. [486]

   But traditionalism went further, and placed the oral actually above the
   written Law. The expression, [487] After the tenor of these words I
   have made a covenant with thee and with Israel,' was explained as
   meaning, that God's covenant was founded on the spoken, in opposition
   to the written words. [488] If the written was thus placed below the
   oral Law, we can scarcely wonder that the reading of the Hagiographa
   was actually prohibited to the people on the Sabbath, from fear that it
   might divert attention from the learned discourses of the Rabbis. The
   study of them on that day was only allowed for the purpose of learned
   investigation and discussions. [489] [490]

   But if traditionalism was not to be committed to writing by Moses,
   measures had been taken to prevent oblivion or inaccuracy. Moses had
   always repeated a traditional law successively to Aaron, to his sons,
   and to the elders of the people, and they again in turn to each other,
   in such wise, that Aaron heard the Mishnah four times, his sons three
   times, the Elders twice, and the people once. But even this was not
   all, for by successive repetitions (of Aaron, his sons, and the Elders)
   the people also heard it four times. [491] And, before his death, Moses
   had summoned any one to come forward, if he had forgotten aught of what
   he had heard and learned. [492] But these Halakhoth of Moses from
   Sinai' do not make up the whole of traditionalism. According to
   Maimonides, it consists of five, but more critically of three classes.
   [493] The first of these comprises both such ordinances as are found in
   the Bible itself, and the so-called Halakhoth of Moses from Sinai -
   that is, such laws and usages as prevailed from time immemorial, and
   which, according to the Jewish view, had been orally delivered to, but
   not written down by Moses. For these, therefore, no proof was to be
   sought in Scripture - at most support, or confirmatory allusion
   (Asmakhtu). [494] Nor were these open to discussion. The second class
   formed the oral law,' [495] or the traditional teaching' [496] in the
   stricter sense. To this class belonged all that was supposed to be
   implied in, or that could be deduced from, the Law of Moses. [497] The
   latter contained, indeed, in substance or germ, everything; but it had
   not been brought out, till circumstances successfully evolved what from
   the first had been provided in principle. For this class of ordinances
   reference to, and proof from, Scripture was required. Not so for the
   third class of ordinances, which were the hedge' drawn by the Rabbis
   around the Law, to prevent any breach of the Law or customs, to ensure
   their exact observance, or to meet peculiar circumstances and dangers.
   These ordinances constituted the sayings of the Scribes' [498] or of
   the Rabbis' [499] [500] - and were either positive in their character
   (Teqqanoth), or else negative (Gezeroth from gazar to cut off').
   Perhaps the distinction of these two cannot always be strictly carried
   out. But it was probably to this third class especially, confessedly
   unsupported by Scripture, that these words of Christ referred: [501]
   All therefore whatsoever they tell you, that do and observe; but do not
   ye after their works: for they say, and do not. For they bind heavy
   burdens and grievous to be borne, and lay them on men's shoulders; but
   with their finger they will not move them away (set in motion).' [502]
   This view has two-fold confirmation. For, this third class of Halakhic
   ordinances was the only one open to the discussion of the learned, the
   ultimate decision being according to the majority. Yet it possessed
   practically (though not theoretically) the same authority as the other
   two classes. In further confirmation of our view the following may be
   quoted: A Gezerah (i.e. this third class of ordinances) is not to be
   laid on the congregation, unless the majority of the congregation is
   able to bear it' [503] - words which read like a commentary on those of
   Jesus, and show that these burdens could be laid on, or moved away,
   according to the varying judgment or severity of a Rabbinic College.
   [504]

   This body of traditional ordinances forms the subject of the Mishnah,
   or second, repeated law. We have here to place on one side the Law of
   Moses as recorded in the Pentateuch, as standing by itself. All else -
   even the teaching of the Prophets and of the Hagiographa, as well as
   the oral traditions - bore the general name of Qabbalah - that which
   has been received.' The sacred study - or Midrash, in the original
   application of the term - concerned either the Halakhah, traditional
   ordinance, which was always that which had been heard' (Shematha), or
   else the Haggadah, that which was said' upon the authority of
   individuals, not as legal ordinance. It was illustration, commentary,
   anecdote, clever or learned saying, &c. At first the Halakhah remained
   unwritten, probably owing to the disputes between Pharisees and
   Sadducees. But the necessity of fixedness and order led in course of
   time to more or less complete collections of the Halakhoth. [505] The
   oldest of these is ascribed to R. Akiba, in the time of the Emperor
   Hadrian. [506] [507] But the authoritative collection in the so-called
   Mishnah is the work of Jehudah the Holy, who died about the end of the
   second century of our era.

   Altogether, the Mishnah comprises six Orders' (Sedarim), each devoted
   to a special class of subjects. [508] These Orders' are divided into
   tractates (Massikhtoth, Massekhtiyoth, textures, webs'), of which there
   are sixty-three (or else sixty-two) in all. These tractates are again
   subdivided into chapters (Peraqim) - in all 525, which severally
   consist of a certain number of verses, or Mishnahs (Mishnayoth, in all
   4,187). Considering the variety and complexity of the subjects treated,
   the Mishnah is arranged with remarkable logical perspicuity. The
   language is Hebrew, though of course not that of the Old Testament. The
   words rendered necessary by the new circumstances are chiefly derived
   from the Greek, the Syriac, and the Latin, with Hebrew terminations.
   [509] But all connected with social intercourse, or ordinary life (such
   as contracts), is written, not in Hebrew, but in Aramæan, as the
   language of the people.

   But the traditional law embodied other materials than the Halakhoth
   collected in the Mishnah. Some that had not been recorded there, found
   a place in the works of certain Rabbis, or were derived from their
   schools. These are called Boraithas - that is, traditions external to
   the Mishnah. Finally, there were additions' (or Tosephtoth), dating
   after the completion of the Mishnah, but probably not later than the
   third century of our era. Such there are to not fewer than fifty-two
   out of the sixty-three Mishnic tractates. When speaking of the Halakhah
   as distinguished from the Haggadah, we must not, however, suppose that
   the latter could be entirely separated from it. In point of fact, one
   whole tractate in the Mishnah (Aboth: The Sayings of the Fathers') is
   entirely Haggadah; a second (Middoth: the Measurements of the Temple')
   has Halakhah in only fourteen places; while in the rest of the
   tractates Haggadah occurs in not fewer than 207 places. [510] Only
   thirteen out of the sixty-three tractates of the Mishnah are entirely
   free from Haggadah.

   Hitherto we have only spoken of the Mishnah. But this comprises only a
   very small part of traditionalism. In course of time the discussions,
   illustrations, explanations, and additions to which the Mishnah gave
   rise, whether in its application, or in the Academies of the Rabbis,
   were authoritatively collected and edited in what are known as the two
   Talmuds or Gemaras. [511] If we imagine something combining law
   reports, a Rabbinical Hansard,' and notes of a theological debating
   club - all thoroughly Oriental, full of digressions, anecdotes, quaint
   sayings, fancies, legends, and too often of what, from its profanity,
   superstition, and even obscenity, could scarcely be quoted, we may form
   some general idea of what the Talmud is. The oldest of these two
   Talmuds dates from about the close of the fourth century of our era. It
   is the product of the Palestinian Academies, and hence called the
   Jerusalem Talmud. The second is about a century younger, and the
   outcome of the Babylonian schools, hence called the Babylon (afterwards
   also our') Talmud. We do not possess either of these works complete.
   [512] The most defective is the Jerusalem Talmud, which is also much
   briefer, and contains far fewer discussions than that of Babylon. The
   Babylon Talmud, which in its present form extends over thirty-six out
   of the sixty-three tractates of the Mishnah, is about ten or eleven
   times the size of the latter, and more than four times that of the
   Jerusalem Talmud. It occupies (in our editions), with marginal
   commentations, 2,947 folio leaves (pages a and b). Both Talmuds are
   written in Aramæan; the one in its western, the other in its eastern
   dialect, and in both the Mishnah is discussed seriatim, and clause by
   clause. Of the character of these discussions it would be impossible to
   convey an adequate idea. When we bear in mind the many sparkling,
   beautiful, and occasionally almost sublime passages in the Talmud, but
   especially that its forms of thought and expression so often recall
   those of the New Testament, only prejudice and hatred could indulge in
   indiscriminate vituperation. On the other hand, it seems unaccountable
   how any one who has read a Talmudic tractate, or even part of one,
   could compare the Talmud with the New Testament, or find in the one the
   origin of the other.

   To complete our brief survey, it should be added that our editions of
   the Babylon Talmud contain (at the close of vol. ix. and after the
   fourth Order') certain Boraithas. Of these there were originally nine,
   but two of the smaller tractates (on the memorial fringes,' and on
   non-Israelites') have not been preserved. The first of these Boraithas
   is entitled Abhoth de Rabbi Nathan, and partially corresponds with a
   tractate of a similar name in the Mishnah. [513] Next follow six minor
   tractates. These are respectively entitled Sopherim (Scribes), [514]
   detailing the ordinances about copying the Scriptures, the ritual of
   the Lectionary, and festive prayers; Ebhel Rabbathi or Semakhoth, [515]
   containing Halakhah and Haggadah about funeral and mourning
   observances; Kallah, [516] on the married relationship; Derekh Erets,
   [517] embodying moral directions and the rules and customs of social
   intercourse; Derekh Erets Zuta, [518] treating of similar subjects, but
   as regards learned students; and, lastly, the Pereq ha Shalom, [519]
   which is a eulogy on peace. All these tractates date, at least in their
   present form, later than the Talmudic period. [520]

   But when the Halakhah, however varied in its application, was something
   fixed and stable, the utmost latitude was claimed and given in the
   Haggadah. It is sadly characteristic, that, practically, the main body
   of Jewish dogmatic and moral theology is really only Haggadah, and
   hence of no absolute authority. The Halakhah indicated with the most
   minute and painful punctiliousness every legal ordinance as to outward
   observances, and it explained every bearing of the Law of Moses. But
   beyond this it left the inner man, the spring of actions, untouched.
   What he was to believe and what to feel, was chiefly matter of the
   Haggadah. Of course the laws of morality, and religion, as laid down in
   the Pentateuch, were fixed principles, but there was the greatest
   divergence and latitude in the explanation and application of many of
   them. A man might hold or propound almost any views, so long as he
   contravened not the Law of Moses, as it was understood, and adhered in
   teaching and practice to the traditional ordinances. In principle it
   was the same liberty which the Romish Church accords to its professing
   members - only with much wider application, since the debatable ground
   embraced so many matters of faith, and the liberty given was not only
   that of private opinion but of public utterance. We emphasise this,
   because the absence of authoritative direction and the latitude in
   matters of faith and inner feeling stand side by side, and in such
   sharp contrast, with the most minute punctiliousness in all matters of
   outward observance. And here we may mark the fundamental distinction
   between the teaching of Jesus and Rabbinism. He left the Halakhah
   untouched, putting it, as it were, on one side, as something quite
   secondary, while He insisted as primary on that which to them was
   chiefly matter of Haggadah. And this rightly so, for, in His own words,
   Not that which goeth into the mouth defileth a man; but that which
   cometh out of the mouth,' since those things which proceed out of the
   mouth come forth from the heart, and they defil the man.' [521] The
   difference was one of fundamental principle, and not merely of
   development, form, or detail. The one developed the Law in its outward
   direction as ordinances and commandments; the other in its inward
   direction as life and liberty. Thus Rabbinism occupied one pole - and
   the outcome of its tendency to pure externalism was the Halakhah, all
   that was internal and higher being merely Haggadic. The teaching of
   Jesus occupied the opposite pole. Its starting-point was the inner
   sanctuary in which God was known and worshipped, and it might well
   leave the Rabbinic Halakhoth aside, as not worth controversy, to be in
   the meantime done and observed,' in the firm assurance that, in the
   course of its development, the spirit would create its own appropriate
   forms, or, to use a New Testament figure, the new wine burst the old
   bottles. And, lastly, as closely connected with all this, and marking
   the climax of contrariety: Rabbinism started with demand of outward
   obedience and righteousness, and pointed to sonship as its goal; the
   Gospel started with the free gift of forgiveness through faith and of
   sonship, and pointed to obedience and righteousness as its goal.

   In truth, Rabbinism, as such, had no system of theology; only what
   ideas, conjectures, or fancies the Haggadah yielded concerning God,
   Angels, demons, man, his future destiny and present position, and
   Israel, with its past history and coming glory. Accordingly, by the
   side of what is noble and pure, what a terrible mass of utter
   incongruities, of conflicting statements and too often debasing
   superstitions, the outcome of ignorance and narrow nationalism; of
   legendary colouring of Biblical narratives and scenes, profane, coarse,
   and degrading to them; the Almighty Himself and His Angels taking part
   in the conversations of Rabbis, and the discussions of Academies; nay,
   forming a kind of heavenly Sanhedrin, which occasionally requires the
   aid of an earthly Rabbi. [522] The miraculous merges into the
   ridiculous, and even the revolting. Miraculous cures, miraculous
   supplies, miraculous help, all for the glory of great Rabbis, [523] who
   by a look or word can kill, and restore to life. At their bidding the
   eyes of a rival fall out, and are again inserted. Nay, such was the
   veneration due to Rabbis, that R. Joshua used to kiss the stone on
   which R. Eliezer had sat and lectured, saying: This stone is like Mount
   Sinai, and he who sat on it like the Ark.' Modern ingenuity has,
   indeed, striven to suggest deeper symbolical meaning for such stories.
   It should own the terrible contrast existing side by side: Hebrewism
   and Judaism, the Old Testament and traditionalism; and it should
   recognise its deeper cause in the absence of that element of spiritual
   and inner life which Christ has brought. Thus as between the two - the
   old and the new - it may be fearlessly asserted that as regards their
   substance and spirit, there is not a difference, but a total
   divergence, of fundamental principle between Rabbinism and the New
   Testament, so that comparison between them is not possible. Here there
   is absolute contrariety.

   The painful fact just referred to is only too clearly illustrated by
   the relation in which traditionalism places itself to the Scriptures of
   the Old Testament, even though it acknowledges their inspiration and
   authority. The Talmud has it, [524] that he who busies himself with
   Scripture only (i.e. without either the Mishnah or Gemara) has merit,
   and yet no merit. [525] Even the comparative paucity of references to
   the Bible in the Mishnah [526] is significant. Israel had made void the
   Law by its traditions. Under a load of outward ordinances and
   observances its spirit had been crushed. The religion as well as the
   grand hope of the Old Testament had become externalized. And so alike
   Heathenism and Judaism - for it was no longer the pure religion of the
   Old Testament - each following its own direction, had reached its goal.
   All was prepared and waiting. The very porch had been built, through
   which the new, and yet old, religion was to pass into the ancient
   world, and the ancient world into the new religion. Only one thing was
   needed: the Coming of the Christ. As yet darkness covered the earth,
   and gross darkness lay upon the people. But far away the golden light
   of the new day was already tingeing the edge of the horizon. Presently
   would the Lord arise upon Zion, and His glory be seen upon her.
   Presently would the Voice from out the wilderness prepare the way of
   the Lord; presently would it herald the Coming of His Christ to Jew and
   Gentile, and that Kingdom of heaven, which, established upon earth, is
   righteousness, and peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost. [527]

     __________________________________________________________________

   [437] St. Luke v. 17.

   [438] Jos. Ant. xviii. 3. 5; xx. 11. 2.

   [439] The title Rabbon (our Master) occurs first in connection with
   Gamaliel i. (Acts v. 34). The N.T. expression Rabboni or Rabbouni (St.
   Mark x. 51; St. John xx. 16) takes the word Rabbon or Rabban (here in
   the absolute sense)= Rabh, and adds to it the personal suffix my,'
   pronouncing the Kamez in the Syriac manner.

   [440] nomiks, the legis Divinae peritus, St. Matt. xxii. 35; St. Luke
   vii. 30; x.25; xi. 45; xiv. 3.

   [441] Not 45 a, as apud Derenbourg. Similarly, his rendering
   littéralement, "citerne vide"' seems to me erroneous.

   [442] Ab. ii. 8.

   [443] Ber. 45 b 2; Ab. ii. 5; Bemid. R. 3.

   [444] Jos. Ant. xvii. 6. 2.

   [445] nomodids kalos, St. Luke v. 17; Acts v. 34; comp. also 1 Tim. i.
   7.

   [446] St. Matt. ii. 4; xx. 18; xxi. 15; xxvi. 57; xxvii. 41; St. Mark
   xiv.1.43;xv. 1; St. Luke xxii. 2, 66; xxiii. 10; Acts iv. 5.

   [447] The distinction between Pharisees' and Scribes,' is marked in may
   passages in the N.T., for example, St. Matt. xxiii. passim; St. Luke
   vii. 30; xiv. 3; and especially in St. Luke xi. 43, comp. with v. 46.
   The words Scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites,' in ver. 44, are,
   according to all evidence, spurious.

   [448] Siphré or Numb. p 25 b.

   [449] Siphré on Deut. p. 105 a.

   [450] Ezra vii.6, 10, 11, 12.

   [451] {hebrew}

   [452] Nedar. iv. 8.

   [453] In Ned. iv. 3 this is the actual division. Of course, in another
   sense the Midrash might be considered as the source of both the
   Halakhah and the Haggadah.

   [454] Neh. xiii.

   [455] Very strange and ungrounded conjectures on this subject have been
   hazarded, which need not here find a place. Comp. for ex. the two
   articles of Grätz in Frankel's Montsschrift for 1857, pp. 31 etc. 61
   etc., the main positions of which have, however, been adopted by some
   learned English writers.

   [456] The Talmudic notices are often inconsistent. The number as given
   in them amounts to abut 120. But the modern doubts (of Kuenen and
   others) against the institution itself cannot be sustained.

   [457] Ezra x. 14; Neh. v. 7.

   [458] Ab. i. 1.

   [459] In the beginning of the third century b.c.

   [460] Ab. i. 3, 4

   [461] Zunz has well pointed out that, if in Ab. i. 4 the first couple'
   is said to have received from them' - while only Antigonus is mentioned
   in the preceding Mishnah, it must imply Antigonus and his unnamed
   disciples and followers. In general, I may take this opportunity of
   stating that, except for special reasons, I shall not refer to previous
   writers on this subject, partly because it would necessitate too many
   quotations, but chiefly because the line of argument I have taken
   differs from that of my predecessors.

   [462] Ab. i. 2.

   [463] Ab. i. 3.

   [464] See Appendix IV.: Political History of the Jews from the Reign of
   Alexander to the Accession of Herod.'

   [465] 160-143 b.c.

   [466] The Gerousa, 1 Macc. xii. 6; xiii. 36; xiv. 28; Jos. Ant. xiii.
   4. 9; 5. 8.

   [467] At the same time some kind of ruling lerousa existed earlier than
   at this period, if we may judge from Jos. Ant. xii 3.3. But he uses the
   term somewhat vaguely, applying it even to the time of Jaddua (Antiq.
   xi. 8. 2).

   [468] Ant. xi. 4. 8.

   [469] Even Ber. 48 a furnishes evidence of this enmity.' This, of
   course, is an inference from the whole history and relation there
   indicated. On the hostile relations between the Pharisaical party and
   the Maccabees see Hamburger, Real-Enc. ii. p. 367. Comp. Jer. Taan. iv.
   5.

   [470] Ant. xiii. 10. 5. 6.

   [471] Kidd 66 a.

   [472] Jer. Maas Sheni v. end, p. 56 d Jer. Sot. ix. p. 24 a.

   [473] geroussia

   [474] {hebrew}Sanh 82 a; Ab. Z. 36 b.

   [475] Derenbourg takes a different view, and identifies the tribunal of
   the Asmoneans with the Sanhedrin. This seems to me, historically,
   impossible. But his opinion to that effect (u. s. p. 87) is apparently
   contradicted at p. 93.

   [476] sundrion. {hebrew} in the N.T also once gerousa, Acts v. 21 and
   twice presbutrion St. Luke xxii. 66; Acts xxii 5.

   [477] Schürer, following Wieseler, supposes the Sanhedrin to have been
   of Roman institution. But the arguments of Wieseler on this point
   (Beitr. zur richt. Wurd. d. Evang. p. 224) are inconclusive.

   [478] Comp. Derenbourg, u. s. p. 95.

   [479] Thus we read: The sayings of the elders have more weight than
   those of the prophets' (Jer. Ber. i. 7); an offence against the sayings
   of the Scribes is worse than one against those of Scripture' (Sanh. xi.
   3). Compare also Er. 21 b The comparison between such claims and those
   sometimes set up on behalf of creeds' and articles' (Kitto's Cyclop.,
   2nd ed., p. 786, col a) does not seem to me applicable. In the
   introduction to the Midr. on Lament. it is inferred from Jer. ix. 12,
   13, that to forsake the law - in the Rabbinic sense - was worse than
   adolatry, uncleanness, or the shedding of blood. See generally that
   Introduction.

   [480] Eduy. i. 3. See the comment of Maimonides.

   [481] It is so explained in the Aruch (ed Zandau, vol. ii. p. 529, col
   b).

   [482] Comp. Hamburger, u.s. p 343.

   [483] Comp. here especially the detailed description by Herzfeld (u. s.
   vol. iii. pp. 226, 263); also the Introduction of Maimonides, and the
   very able and learned works (not sufficiently appreciated) by Dr. H. S.
   Hirschfeld, Halachische Exegese (Berlin, 1840), and Hagadische Exegese
   (Berlin, 1847). Perhaps I may also take leave to refer to the
   corresponding chapters in my History of the Jewish Nation.'

   [484] Midr. Shochar Tobh on Ps. ix. 6. ed. Warshau, p. 14 b; Abde R.
   Nath. 2.

   [485] Similarly, the expressions in Ex. xxiv. 12 were thus explained:
   the tables of stone,' the ten commandments; the law,' the written Law;
   the commandments,' the Mishnah; which I have written,' the Prophets and
   Hagiographa; that thou mayest teach them,' the Talmud - which shows
   that they were all given to Moses on Sinai' (Ber. 5 a, lines 11-16). A
   like application was made of the various clauses in Cant. vii. 12
   (Erub. 21 b). Nay, by an alternation of the words in Hos. vii. 10, it
   was shown that the banished had been brought back for the merit of
   their study (of the sacrificial sections) of the Mishnah (Vayyik R. 7).

   [486] Hos. viii 12;comp. Shem. R. 47.

   [487] Ex. xxxiv. 27.

   [488] Jer. Chag. p. 76 d.

   [489] Tos. Shabb. xiv.

   [490] Another reason also is, however, mentioned for his prohibition.

   [491] Erub. 54 b.

   [492] Deut. i. 5.

   [493] Hirschfeld, u. s. pp. 92-99.

   [494] From {hebrew} to lean against. At the same time the ordinances,
   for which an appeal could be made to Asmakhta, were better liked than
   those which rested on tradition alone (Jer. Chag. p. 76, col d).

   [495] {hebrew}

   [496] {hebrew}

   [497] In connection with this it is very significant that R. Jochanan
   ben Zaccai, who taught not many years after the Crucifixion of Christ,
   was wont to say, that, in the future, Halakhahs in regard to purity,
   which had not the support of Scripture, would be repeated (Sot. 27 b,
   line 16 from top). In geneal, the teaching of R. Jochanan should be
   studied to understand the unacknowledged influence which Christianity
   exercised upon the Synagogue.

   [498] {hebrew}.

   [499] {hebrew}.

   [500] But this is not always.

   [501] St. Matt. xxiii. 3, 4.

   [502] To elucidate the meaning of Christ, it seemed necessary to submit
   an avowedly difficult text to fresh criticism. I have taken the word
   kinen, moveo in the sense of ire facio (Grimm, Clavis N.T. ed. 2^da, p.
   241 a), but I have not adopted the inference of Meyer (Krit. Exeget.
   Handb. p. 455). In classical Greek also kinen  is used for to remove,
   to alter.' My reasons against what may be called the traditional
   interpretation of St. Matt. xxiii. 3, 4, are: 1. It seems scarcely
   possible to suppose that, before such an audience, Christ would have
   contemplated the possibility of not observing either of the two first
   classes of Halakhoth, which were regarded as beyond controversy. 2. It
   could scarcely be truthfully charged against the Scribes and Pharisees,
   that they did not attempt to keep themselves the ordinances which they
   imposed upon others. The expression in the parallel passage (St. Luke
   xi. 46) must be explained in accordance with the commentation on St.
   Matt. xxiii. 4. Nor is there any serious difficulty about it.

   [503] B. Kam. 79 b.

   [504] For the classification, arrangement, origin, and enumeration of
   these Halakhoth, see Appendix V.: Rabbinic Theology and literature.'

   [505] See the learned remarks of Levy about the reasons for the earlier
   prohibition of writing down the oral law, and the final collection of
   the Mishnah (Neuhebr. u. Chald. Wörterb. vol. ii. p. 435).

   [506] 132-135 a.d.

   [507] These collections are enumerated in the Midrash on Eccles. xii.
   3. They are also distinguished as the former' and the later' Mishnah
   (Nedar. 91 a).

   [508] The first Order' (Zeraim, seeds') begins with the ordinances
   concerning benedictions,' or the time, mode, manner, and character of
   the prayers prescribed. It then goes on to detail what may be called
   the religio-agrarian laws (such as tithing, Sabbatical years, first
   fruits, &c.). The second Order' (Moed, festive time') discusses all
   connected with the Sabbath observance and the other festivals. The
   third Order' (Nashim, women') treats of all that concerns betrothal,
   marriage and divorce, but also includes a tractate on the Nasirate. The
   fourth Order' (Neziqin, damages') contains the civil and criminal law.
   Characteristically, it includes all the ordinances concerning
   idol-worship (in the tractate Abhodah Zarah) and the sayings of the
   Fathers' (Abhoth). The fifth Order' (Qodashim, holy things') treats of
   the various classes of sacrifices, offerings, and things belonging (as
   the first-born), or dedicated, to God, and of all questions which can
   be grouped under sacred things' (such as the redemption, exchange, or
   alienation of what had been dedicated to God). It also includes the
   laws concerning the daily morning and evening service (Tamid), and a
   description of the structure and arrangements of the Temple (Middoth,
   the measurements'). Finally, the sixth Order' (Toharoth, cleannesses')
   gives every ordinance connected with the questions of clean and
   unclean,' alike as regards human beings, animals, and inanimate things.

   [509] Comp. the very interesting tractate by Dr. Brüll (Fremdspr
   Redensart in d. Talmud), as well as Dr. Eisler's Beiträge z. Rabb. u.
   Alterthumsk., 3 fascic; Sachs, Beitr. z. Rabb u. Alterthumsk.

   [510] Comp. the enumeration in Pinner, u. s.

   [511] Talmud: that which is learned, doctrine. Gemara: either the same,
   or else perfection,' completion.'

   [512] The following will explain our meaning: On the first order' we
   have the Jerusalem Talmud complete, that is, on every tractate
   (comprising in all 65 folio leaves), while the Babylon Talmud extends
   only over its first tractate (Berakhoth). On the second order, the four
   last chapters of one tractate (Shabbath) are wanting in the Jerusalem,
   and one whole tractate (Sheqalim) in the Babylon Talmud. The third
   order is complete in both Gemaras. On the fourth order a chapter is
   wanting in one tractate (Makkoth) in the Jerusalem, and two whole
   tractates (Eduyoth and Abhoth) in both Gemaras. The fifth order is
   wholly wanting in the Jerusalem, and two and a half tractates of it
   (Middoth, Qinnim, and half Tamid) in the Babylon Talmud. Of the sixth
   order only one tractate (Niddah) exists in both Gemaras. The principal
   Halakhoth were collected in a work (dating from about 800 a.d.)
   entitled Halakhoth Gedoloth. They are arranged to correspond with the
   weekly lectionary of the Pentateuch in a work entitled Sheeltoth
   (Questions:' best ed. Dghernfurth, 1786). The Jerusalem Talmud extends
   over 39, the Babylonian over 36 ½ tractates - 15 ½ tractates have no
   Gemara at all.

   [513] The last ten chapters curiously group together events or things
   under numerals from 10 downwards. The most generally interesting of
   these is that of the 10 Nequdoth, or passages of Scripture in which
   letters are marked by dots, together with the explanation of their
   reasons (ch. xxxiv.). The whole Boraitha seems composed of parts of
   three different works, and consists of forty (or forty-one) chapters,
   and occupies ten folio leaves.

   [514] In twenty-one chapters, each containing a number of Halakhahs,
   and occupying in all four folio leaves.

   [515] In fourteen chapters, occupying rather more than three folio
   leaves.

   [516] It fills little more than a folio page.

   [517] In eleven chapters, covering about 1 ¾ folio leaves.

   [518] In nine chapters, filling one folio leaf.

   [519] Little more than a folio column.

   [520] Besides these, Raphael Kirchheim has published (Frankfort, 1851)
   the so-called seven smaller tractates, covering altogether with
   abundant notes, only forty-four small pages, which treat of the copying
   of the Bible (Sepher Torah, in five chapters), of the Mezuzah, or
   memorial on the doorposts (in two chapters), Phylacteries (Tephillin,
   in one chapter), of the Tsitsith, or memorial-fringes (in one chapter),
   of Slaves (Abhadim, in three chapters) of the Cutheans, or Samaritans
   (in two chapters), and, finally, a curious tractate on Proselytes
   (Gerim, in four chapters).

   [521] St. Matt. xv. 11, 18.

   [522] Thus, in B. Mez. 86 a, we read of a discussion in the heavenly
   Academy on the subject of purity, when Rabbah was summoned to heaven by
   death, although this required a miracle, since he was constantly
   engaged in sacred study. Shocking to write, it needed the authority of
   Rabbah to attest the correctness of the Almighty's statement on the
   Halakhic question discussed.

   [523] Some of these miracles are detailed in B. Mets. 85 b, 86 a. Thus,
   Resh Lakish, when searching for the tomb of R. Chija, found that it was
   miraculously removed from his sight, as being too sacred for ordinary
   eyes. The same Rabbi claimed such merit, that for his sake the Law
   should never be forgotten in Israel. Such was the power of the
   patriarchs that, if they had been raised up together, they would have
   brought Messiah before His time. When R. Chija prayed, successively a
   storm arose, the rain descended, and the earth trembled. Again, Rabbah,
   when about to be arrested, caused the face of the messenger to be
   turned to his back, and again restored it; next, by his prayer he made
   a wall burst, and so escaped. In Abhod. Zar. 17 b, a miracle is
   recorded in favour of R. Eleazar, to set him free from his persecutors,
   or, rather, to attest a false statement which he made in order to
   escape martyrdom. For further extravagant praises of the Rabbis, comp.
   Sanh. 101 a.

   [524] Baba Mets. 33 a.

   [525] Similarly we read in Aboth d. R. Nathan 29: He who is master of
   the Midrash, but knows no Halakhahs, is like a hero, but there are no
   arms in his hand. He that is master of the Halakhoth, but knows nothing
   of the Midrashim, is a weak person who is provided with arms. But he
   that is master of both is both a hero and armed.'

   [526] Most of these, of course, are from the Pentateuch.  References to
   any other Old Testament books are generally loosely made, and serve
   chiefly as points d'appuî for Rabbinical sayings. Scriptural quotations
   occur in 51 out of the 63 tractates of the Mishnah, the number of
   verses quoted being 430. A quotation in the Mishnah is generally
   introduced by the formula as it is said.' This in all but sixteen
   instances, where the quotation is prefaced by, Scripture means to say.'
   But, in general, the difference in the mode of quotation in Rabbinic
   writings seems to depend partly on the context, but chiefly on the
   place and time. Thus, as it is written' is a Chaldee mode of quotation.
   Half the quotations in the Talmud are prefaced by as it is said;' a
   fifth of them by as it is written;' a tenth by scripture means to say;'
   and the remaining fifth by various other formulas.  Comp. Pinner's
   Introduction to Berakhoth. In the Jerusalem Talmud no al-tikré (read
   not so, but read so') occurs, for the purposes of textual criticism. In
   the Talmud a favourite mode of quoting from the Pentateuch, made in
   about 600 passages, is by introducing it as spoken or written by
   {hebrew}. The various modes in which Biblical quotations are made in
   Jewish writings are enumerated in Surenhusius Bblos katallags, pp.
   1-56.

   [527] For details on the Jewish views on the Canon, and historical and
   mystical theology, see Appendix V.: Rabbinic Theology and Literature.'
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

Book II

   FROM THE MANGER IN BETHLEHEM TO THE BAPTISM IN JORDAN.

   ________________


   Fortitudo infirmatur,

   Parva fit immensitas;

   Liberator alligatur,

   Nascitur æternitas.

   O quam mira perpetrasti

   Jesu propter hominem!

   Tam ardenter quem amasti

   Paradiso exulem.' - Ancient Latin Hymn
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER I.
IN JERUSALEM WHEN HEROD REIGNED

   IF the dust of ten centuries could have been wiped from the eyelids of
   those sleepers, and one of them who thronged Jerusalem in the highday
   of its glory, during the reign of King Solomon, had returned to its
   streets, he would scarcely have recognised the once familiar city.
   Then, as now, a Jewish king reigned, who bore undivided rule over the
   whole land; then, as now, the city was filled with riches and adorned
   with palaces and architectural monuments; then, as now, Jerusalem was
   crowded with strangers from all lands. Solomon and Herod were each the
   last Jewish king over the Land of Promise; [528] Solomon and Herod,
   each, built the Temple. But with the son of David began, and with the
   Idumæan ended, the kingdom;' or rather, having fulfilled its mission,
   it gave place to the spiritual world-kingdom of David's greater Son.'
   The sceptre departed from Judah to where the nations were to gather
   under its sway. And the Temple which Solomon built was the first. In it
   the Shekhinah dwelt visibly. The Temple which Herod reared was the
   last. The ruins of its burning, which the torch of the Romans had
   kindled, were never to be restored. Herod was not the antitype, he was
   the Barabbas, of David's Royal Son.

   In other respects, also, the difference was almost equally great. The
   four companion-like' hills on which the city was built, [529] the deep
   clefts by which it was surrounded, the Mount of Olives rising in the
   east, were the same as a thousand years ago. There, as of old were the
   Pool of Siloam and the royal gardens - nay, the very wall that had then
   surrounded the city. And yet all was so altered as to be scarcely
   recognisable. The ancient Jebusite fort, the City of David, Mount Zion,
   [530] was now the priests' quarter, Ophel, and the old royal palace and
   stables had been thrown into the Temple area - now completely levelled
   - where they formed the magnificent treble colonnade, known as the
   Royal Porch. Passing through it, and out by the Western Gate of the
   Temple, we stand on the immense bridge which spans the Valley of the
   Cheesemongers,' or the Tyropoeon, and connects the Eastern with the
   Western hills of the city. It is perhaps here that we can best mark the
   outstanding features, and note the changes. On the right, as we look
   northward, are (on the Eastern hill) Ophel, the Priest-quarter, and the
   Temple - oh, how wondrously beautiful and enlarged, and rising terrace
   upon terrace, surrounded by massive walls: a palace, a fortress, a
   Sanctuary of shining marble and glittering gold. And beyond it frowns
   the old fortress of Baris, rebuilt by Herod, and named after his
   patron, Antonia. This is the Hill of Zion. Right below us is the cleft
   of the Tyropoeon, and here creeps up northwards the Lower City' or
   Acra, in the form of a crescent, widening into an almost square
   suburb.' Across the Tyropoeon - westward, rises the Upper City.' If the
   Lower City and suburb form the business-quarter with its markets
   bazaars, and streets of trades and guilds, the Upper City' is that of
   palaces. Here, at the other end of the great bridge which connects the
   Temple with the Upper City,' is the palace of the Maccabees; beyond it,
   the Xystos, or vast colonnaded enclosure, where popular assemblies are
   held; then the Palace of Ananias the High-Priest, and nearest to the
   Temple, the Council Chamber' and public Archives. Behind it, westwards,
   rise, terrace upon terrace, the stately mansions of the Upper City,
   till, quite in the north-west corner of the old city, we reach the
   Palace which Herod had built for himself - almost a city and fortress,
   flanked by three high towers, and enclosing spacious gardens. Beyond it
   again, and outside the city walls, both of the first and the second,
   stretches all north of the city the new suburb of Bezetha. Here on
   every side are gardens and villas; here passes the great northern road;
   out there must they have laid hold on Simon the Cyrenian, and here must
   have led the way to the place of the Crucifixion.

   Changes that marked the chequered course of Israel's history had come
   even over the city walls. The first and oldest - that of David and
   Solomon - ran round the west side of the Upper City, then crossed south
   to the Pool of Siloam, and ran up east, round Ophel, till it reached
   the eastern enclosure of the Temple, whence it passed in a straight
   line to the point from which it had started, forming the northern
   boundary of the ancient city. But although this wall still existed,
   there was now a marked addition to it. When the Maccabee Jonathan
   finally cleared Jerusalem of the Syrian garrison that lay in Fort Acra,
   [531] he built a wall right through the middle of the city,' so as to
   shut out the foe. [532] This wall probably ran from the western angle
   of the Temple southwards, to near the pool of Siloam, following the
   winding course of the Tyropoeon, but on the other side of it, where the
   declivity of the Upper City merged in the valley. Another monument of
   the Syrian Wars, of the Maccabees, and of Herod, was the fortress
   Antonia. Part of it had, probably, been formerly occupied by what was
   known as Fort Acra, of such unhappy prominence in the wars that
   preceded and marked the early Maccabean period. It had passed from the
   Ptolemies to the Syrians, and always formed the central spot round
   which the fight for the city turned. Judas Maccabee had not been able
   to take it. Jonathan had laid siege to it, and built the wall, to which
   reference has just been made, so as to isolate its garrison. It was at
   last taken by Simon, the brother and successor of Jonathan, and
   levelled with the ground. [533] Fort Baris, which was constructed by
   his successor Hyrcanus I., [534] covered a much wider space. It lay on
   the northwestern angle of the Temple, slightly jutting beyond it in the
   west, but not covering the whole northern area of the Temple. The rock
   on which it stood was higher than the Temple, [535] although lower than
   the hill up which the new suburb Bezetha crept, which, accordingly, was
   cut off by a deep ditch, for the safety of the fortress. Herod greatly
   enlarged and strengthened it. Within encircling walls the fort rose to
   a height of sixty feet, and was flanked by four towers, of which three
   had a height of seventy, the fourth (S.E.), which jutted into the
   Temple area, of 105 feet, so as to command the sacred enclosure. A
   subterranean passage led into the Temple itself, [536] which was also
   connected with it by colonnades and stairs. Herod had adorned as well
   as strengthened and enlarged, this fort (now Antonia), and made it a
   palace, an armed camp, and almost a city. [537]

   Hitherto we have only spoken of the first, or old wall, which was
   fortified by sixty towers. The second wall, which had only fourteen
   towers, began at some point in the northern wall at the Gate Gennath,
   whence it ran north, and then east, so as to enclose Acra and the
   Suburb. It terminated at Fort Antonia. Beyond, and all around this
   second wall stretched, as already noticed, the new, as yet unenclosed
   suburb Bezetha, rising towards the north-east. But these changes were
   as nothing compared with those within the city itself. First and
   foremost was the great transformation in the Temple itself, [538]
   which, from a small building, little larger than an ordinary church, in
   the time of Solomon, [539] had become that great and glorious House
   which excited the admiration of the foreigner, and kindled the
   enthusiasm of every son of Israel. At the time of Christ it had been
   already forty-six years in building, and workmen were still, and for a
   long time, engaged on it. [540] But what a heterogeneous crowd thronged
   its porches and courts! Hellenists; scattered wanderers from the most
   distant parts of the earth - east, west, north, and south; Galileans,
   quick of temper and uncouth of Jewish speech; Judæans and
   Jerusalemites; white-robed Priests and Levites; Temple officials;
   broad-phylacteried, wide-fringed Pharisees, and courtly, ironical
   Sadducees; and, in the outer court, curious Gentiles! Some had come to
   worship; others to pay vows, or bring offerings, or to seek
   purification; some to meet friends, and discourse on religious subjects
   in those colonnaded porches, which ran round the Sanctuary; or else to
   have their questions answered, or their causes heard and decided, by
   the smaller Sanhedrin of twenty-three, that sat in the entering of the
   gate or by the Great Sanhedrin. The latter no longer occupied the Hall
   of Hewn Stones, Gazith, but met in some chamber attached to those
   shops,' or booths, on the Temple Mount, which belonged to the
   High-Priestly family of Ananias, and where such profitable trade was
   driven by those who, in their cupidity and covetousness, were worthy
   successors of the sons of Eli. In the Court of the Gentiles (or in its
   porches) sat the official money-changers, who for a fixed discount
   changed all foreign coins into those of the Sanctuary. Here also was
   that great mart for sacrificial animals, and all that was requisite for
   offerings. How the simple, earnest country people, who came to pay
   vows, or bring offerings for purifying, must have wondered, and felt
   oppressed in that atmosphere of strangely blended religious rigorism
   and utter worldliness; and how they must have been taxed, imposed upon,
   and treated with utmost curtness, nay, rudeness, by those who laughed
   at their boorishness, and despised them as cursed, ignorant country
   people, little better than heathens, or, for that matter, than brute
   beasts. Here also there lay about a crowd of noisy beggars, unsightly
   from disease, and clamorous for help. And close by passed the luxurious
   scion of the High-Priestly families; the proud, intensely
   self-conscious Teacher of the Law, respectfully followed by his
   disciples; and the quick-witted, subtle Scribe. These were men who, on
   Sabbaths and feast-days, would come out on the Temple-terrace to teach
   the people, or condescend to answer their questions; who in the
   Synagogues would hold their puzzled hearers spell-bound by their
   traditional lore and subtle argumentation, or tickle the fancy of the
   entranced multitude, that thronged every available space, by their
   ingenious frivolities, their marvellous legends, or their clever
   sayings; but who would, if occasion required, quell an opponent by
   well-poised questions, or crush him beneath the sheer weight of
   authority. Yet others were there who, despite the utterly lowering
   influence which the frivolities of the prevalent religion, and the
   elaborate trifling of its endless observances, must have exercised on
   the moral and religious feelings of all - perhaps, because of them -
   turned aside, and looked back with loving gaze to the spiritual
   promises of the past, and forward with longing expectancy to the near
   consolation of Israel,' waiting for it in prayerful fellowship, and
   with bright, heaven-granted gleams of its dawning light amidst the
   encircling gloom.

   Descending from the Temple into the city, there was more than
   enlargement, due to the increased population. Altogether, Jerusalem
   covered, at its greatest, about 300 acres. [541] As of old there were
   still the same narrow streets in the business quarters; but in close
   contiguity to bazaars and shops rose stately mansions of wealthy
   merchants, and palaces of princes. [542] And what a change in the
   aspect of these streets, in the character of those shops, and, above
   all, in the appearance of the restless Eastern crowd that surged to and
   fro! Outside their shops in the streets, or at least in sight of the
   passers, and within reach of their talk, was the shoemaker hammering
   his sandals, the tailor plying his needle, the carpenter, or the worker
   in iron and brass. Those who were less busy, or more enterprising,
   passed along, wearing some emblem of their trade: the dyer, variously
   coloured threads; the carpenter, a rule: the writer, a reed behind his
   ear; the tailor, with a needle prominently stuck in his dress. In the
   side streets the less attractive occupations of the butcher, the
   wool-comber, or the flaxspinner were pursued: the elegant workmanship
   of the goldsmith and jeweller; the various articles de luxe, that
   adorned the houses of the rich; the work of the designer, the moulder,
   or the artificer in iron or brass. In these streets and lanes
   everything might be purchased: the production of Palestine, or imported
   from foreign lands - nay, the rarest articles from the remotest parts.
   Exquisitely shaped, curiously designed and jewelled cups, rings and
   other workmanship of precious metals; glass, silks, fine linen, woollen
   stuffs, purple, and costly hangings; essences, ointments, and perfumes,
   as precious as gold; articles of food and drink from foreign lands - in
   short, what India, Persia, Arabia, Media Egypt, Italy, Greece, and even
   the far-off lands of the Gentiles yielded, might be had in these
   bazaars.

   Ancient Jewish writings enable us to identify no fewer than 118
   different articles of import from foreign lands, covering more than
   even modern luxury has devised. Articles of luxury, especially from
   abroad, fetched indeed enormous prices; and a lady might spend 36l. on
   a cloak; [543] silk would be paid by its weight in gold; purple wool at
   3l. 5s. the pound, or, if double-dyed, at almost ten times that amount;
   while the price of the best balsam and nard was most exorbitant. On the
   other hand, the cost of common living was very low. In the bazaars you
   might get a complete suit for your slave for eighteen or nineteen
   shillings, [544] and a tolerable outfit for yourself from 3l. to 6l.
   For the same sum you might purchase an ass, [545] an ox, [546] or a
   cow, [547] and, for little more, a horse. A calf might be had for less
   than fifteen shillings, a goat for five or six. [548] Sheep were
   dearer, and fetched from four to fifteen or sixteen shillings, while a
   lamb might sometimes be had as low as two pence. No wonder living and
   labour were so cheap. Corn of all kinds, fruit, wine, and oil, cost
   very little. Meat was about a penny a pound; a man might get himself a
   small, of course unfurnished, lodging for about sixpence a week. [549]
   A day labourer was paid about 7½d. a day, though skilled labour would
   fetch a good deal more. Indeed, the great Hillel was popularly supposed
   to have supported his family on less than twopence a day, [550] while
   property to the amount of about 6l., or trade with 2l. or 3l. of goods,
   was supposed to exclude a person from charity, or a claim on what was
   left in the corners of fields and the gleaners. [551]

   To these many like details might be added. [552] Sufficient has been
   said to show the two ends of society: the exceeding dearness of
   luxuries, and the corresponding cheapness of necessaries. Such extremes
   would meet especially at Jerusalem. Its population, computed at from
   200,000 to 250,000, [553] was enormously swelled by travellers, and by
   pilgrims during the great festivals. [554] The great Palace was the
   residence of King and Court, with all their following and luxury; in
   Antonia lay afterwards the Roman garrison. The Temple called thousands
   of priests, many of them with their families, to Jerusalem; while the
   learned Academies were filled with hundreds, though it may have been
   mostly poor, scholars and students. In Jerusalem must have been many of
   the large warehouses for the near commercial harbour of Joppa; and
   thence, as from the industrial centres of busy Galilee, would the
   pedlar go forth to carry his wares over the land. More especially would
   the markets of Jerusalem, held, however, in bazaars and streets rather
   than in squares, be thronged with noisy sellers and bargaining buyers.
   Thither would Galilee send not only its manufactures, but its
   provisions: fish (fresh or salted), fruit [555] known for its
   lusciousness, oil, grape-syrup, and wine. There were special inspectors
   for these markets - the Agardemis or Agronimos - who tested weights and
   measures, and officially stamped them, [556] tried the soundness of
   food or drink, [557] and occasionally fixed or lowered the
   market-prices, enforcing their decision, [558] if need were, even with
   the stick. [559] [560] Not only was there an upper and a lower market
   in Jerusalem, [561] but we read of at least seven special markets:
   those for cattle, [562] wool, iron-ware, [563] clothes, wood, [564]
   bread, and fruit and vegetables. The original market-days were Monday
   and Tuesday, afterwards Friday. [565] The large fairs (Yeridin) were
   naturally confined to the centres of import and export - the borders of
   Egypt (Gaza), the ancient Phoenician maritime towns (Tyre and Acco),
   and the Emporium across the Jordan (Botnah). [566] Besides, every
   caravansary, or khan (qatlis, atlis, katlusis), was a sort of mart,
   where goods were unloaded, and especially cattle set out [567] for
   sale, and purchases made. But in Jerusalem one may suppose the sellers
   to have been every day in the market; and the magazines, in which green
   grocery and all kinds of meat were sold (the Beth haShevaqim), [568]
   must have been always open. Besides, there were the many shops
   (Chanuyoth) either fronting the streets, or in courtyards, or else
   movable wooden booths in the streets. Strangely enough, occasionally
   Jewish women were employed in selling. [569] Business was also done in
   the restaurants and wineshops, of which there were many; where you
   might be served with some dish: fresh or salted fish, fried locusts, a
   mess of vegetables, a dish of soup, pastry, sweetmeats, or a piece of a
   fruit-cake, to be washed down with Judæan or Galilean wine, Idumæan
   vinegar, or foreign beer.

   If from these busy scenes we turn to the more aristocratic quarters of
   the Upper City, [570] we still see the same narrow streets, but
   tenanted by another class. First, we pass the High-Priest's palace on
   the slope of the hill, with a lower story under the principal
   apartments, and a porch in front. Here, on the night of the Betrayal,
   Peter was beneath in the Palace.' [571] Next, we come to Xystos, and
   then pause for a moment at the Palace of the Maccabees. It lies higher
   up the hill, and westward from the Xytos. From its halls you can look
   into the city, and even into the Temple. We know not which of the
   Maccabees had built this palace. But it was occupied, not by the
   actually reigning prince, who always resided in the fortress (Baris,
   afterwards Antonia), but by some other member of the family. From them
   it passed into the possession of Herod. There Herod Antipas was when,
   on that terrible Passover, Pilate sent Jesus from the old palace of
   Herod to be examined by the Ruler of Galilee. [572] If these buildings
   pointed to the difference between the past and present, two structures
   of Herod's were, perhaps, more eloquent than any words in their
   accusations of the Idumæan. One of these, at least, would come in sight
   in passing along the slopes of the Upper City. The Maccabean rule had
   been preceded by that of corrupt High-Priests, who had prostituted
   their office to the vilest purposes. One of them, who had changed his
   Jewish name of Joshua into Jason, had gone so far, in his attempts to
   Grecianise the people, as to build a Hippodrome and Gymnasium for
   heathen games. We infer, it stood where the Western hill sloped into
   the Tyropoeon, to the south-west of the Temple. [573] It was probably
   this which Herod afterwards enlarged and beautified, and turned into a
   threatre. No expense was spared on the great games held there. The
   threatre itself was magnificently adorned with gold, silver, precious
   stones, and trophies of arms and records of the victories of Augustus.
   But to the Jews this essentially heathen place, over against their
   Temple, was cause of deep indignation and plots. [574] Besides this
   theatre, Herod also built an immense amphitheatre, which we must locate
   somewhere in the north-west, and outside the second city wall. [575]

   All this was Jerusalem above ground. But there was an under ground
   Jerusalem also, which burrowed everywhere under the city - under the
   Upper City, under the Temple, beyond the city walls. Its extent may be
   gathered from the circumstance that, after the capture of the city,
   besides the living who had sought shelter there, no fewer than 2,000
   dead bodies were found in those subterranean streets.

   Close by the tracks of heathenism in Jerusalem, and in sharp contrast,
   was what gave to Jerusalem its intensely Jewish character. It was not
   only the Temple, nor the festive pilgrims to its feasts and services.
   But there were hundreds of Synagogues, [576] some for different
   nationalities - such as the Alexandrians, or the Cyrenians; some for,
   or perhaps founded by, certain trade-guilds. If possible, the Jewish
   schools were even more numerous than the Synagogues. Then there were
   the many Rabbinic Academies; and, besides, you might also see in
   Jerusalem that mysterious sect, the Essenes, of which the members were
   easily recognized by their white dress. Essenes, Pharisees, stranger
   Jews of all hues, and of many dresses and languages! One could have
   imagined himself almost in another world, a sort of enchanted land, in
   this Jewish metropolis, and metropolis of Judaism. When the silver
   trumpets of the Priests woke the city to prayer, or the strain of
   Levite music swept over it, or the smoke of the sacrifices hung like
   another Shekhinah over the Temple, against the green background of
   Olivet; or when in every street, court, and housetop rose the booths at
   the Feast of Tabernacles, and at night the sheen of the Temple
   illumination threw long fantastic shadows over the city; or when, at
   the Passover, tens of thousands crowded up the Mount with their Paschal
   lambs, and hundreds of thousands sat down to the Paschal supper - it
   would be almost difficult to believe, that heathenism was so near, that
   the Roman was virtually, and would soon be really, master of the land,
   or that a Herod occupied the Jewish throne.

   Yet there he was; in the pride of his power, and the reckless cruelty
   of his ever-watchful tyranny. Everywhere was his mark. Temples to the
   gods and to Cæsar, magnificent, and magnificently adorned, outside
   Palestine and in its non-Jewish cities; towns rebuilt or built: Sebaste
   for the ancient Samaria, the splendid city and harbour of Cæsarea in
   the west, Antipatris (after his father) in the north, Kypros and
   Phasaelis (after his mother and brother), and Agrippeion; unconquerable
   fortresses, such as Essebonitis and Machoerus in Peræa, Alexandreion,
   Herodeion, Hyrcania, and Masada in Judæa - proclaimed his name and
   sway. But in Jerusalem it seemed as if he had gathered up all his
   strength. The theatre and amphitheatre spoke of his Grecianism; Antonia
   was the representative fortress; for his religion he had built that
   glorious Temple, and for his residence the noblest of palaces, at the
   north-western angle of the Upper City, close by where Milo had been in
   the days of David. It seems almost incredible, that a Herod should have
   reared the Temple, and yet we can understand his motives. Jewish
   tradition had it, that a Rabbi (Baba ben Buta) had advised him in this
   manner to conciliate the people, [577] or else thereby to expiate the
   slaughter of so many Rabbis. [578] [579] Probably a desire to gain
   popularity, and supersition, may alike have contributed, as also the
   wish to gratify his love for splendour and building. At the same time,
   he may have wished to show himself a better Jew than that rabble of
   Pharisees and Rabbis, who perpetually would cast it in his teeth, that
   he was an Idumæan. Whatever his origin, he was a true king of the Jews
   - as great, nay greater, than Solomon himself. Certainly, neither
   labour nor money had been spared on the Temple. A thousand vehicles
   carried up the stone; 10,000 workmen, under the guidance of 1,000
   priests, wrought all the costly material gathered into that house, of
   which Jewish tradition could say, He that has not seen the temple of
   Herod, has never known what beauty is.' [580] And yet Israel despised
   and abhorred the builder! Nor could his apparent work for the God of
   Israel have deceived the most credulous. In youth he had browbeaten the
   venerable Sanhedrin, and threatened the city with slaughter and
   destruction; again and again had he murdered her venerable sages; he
   had shed like water the blood of her Asmonean princes, and of every one
   who dared to be free; had stifled every national aspiration in the
   groans of the torture, and quenched it in the gore of his victims. Not
   once, nor twice, but six times did he change the High-Priesthood, to
   bestow it at last on one who bears no good name in Jewish theology, a
   foreigner in Judæa, an Alexandrian. And yet the power of that Idumæan
   was but of yesterday, and of mushroom growth!
     __________________________________________________________________

   [528] I do not here reckon the brief reign of King Agrippa.

   [529] Ps. cxxii.

   [530] It will be seen that, with the most recent explorers, I locate
   Mount Zion not on the traditional site, on the western hill of
   Jerusalem, but on the eastern, south of the Temple area.

   [531] 1 Macc. i. 33, and often; but the precise situation of this fort'
   is in dispute.

   [532] 1 Macc. xii. 36; Jos. Ant. xiii. 5. 11; comp. with it xiv. 16. 2;
   War vi. 7. 2; 8. 1.

   [533] 141 b.c.

   [534] 135-106 b.c.

   [535] It is, to say the least, doubtful, whether the numeral 50 cubits
   (75 feet), which Josephus assigns to this rock (War v. 5. 8), applies
   to its height (comp. Speiss, Das Jerus. d. Jos.p. 66).

   [536] Ant. xv. 11. 7.

   [537] Jos. War v. 5. 8.

   [538] I must take leave to refer to the description of Jerusalem, and
   especially of the Temple, in the Temple and its Services at the Time of
   Jesus Christ.'

   [539] Dr. Mühlau, in Riehm's Handwörterb. Part viii. p. 682 b, speaks
   of the dimensions of the old Sanctuary as little more than those of a
   village church.

   [540] It was only finished in 64 a.d., that is, six years before its
   destruction.

   [541] See Conder, Heth and Moab, p. 94.

   [542] Such as the Palace of Grapte, and that of Queen Helena of
   Adiabene.

   [543] Baba B. ix. 7.

   [544] Arakh. vi. 5.

   [545] Baba K. x. 4.

   [546] Men. xiii. 8; Baba K. iii. 9.

   [547] Tos. Sheq. ii.; Tos. Ar. iv.

   [548] Men. xiii. 8.

   [549] Tos. Baba Mets. iv.

   [550] Yoma 35 b.

   [551] Peah viii. 8, 9.

   [552] Comp. Herzfeld's Handelsgesch.

   [553] Ancient Jerusalem is supposed to have covered about double the
   area of the modern city. Comp. Dr. Schick in A.M. Luncz, Jerusalem,'
   for 1882.

   [554] Although Jerusalem covered only about 300 acres, yet, from the
   narrowness of Oriental streets, it would hold a very much larger
   population than any Western city of the same extent. Besides, we must
   remember that its ecclesiastical boundaries extended beyond the city.

   [555] Maaser. ii. 3.

   [556] Baba B. 89 a.

   [557] Jer. Ab. Z 44 b; Ab. Z. 58 a.

   [558] Jer. Dem 22 c.

   [559] Yoma 9 a.

   [560] On the question of officially fixing the market-price, diverging
   opinions are expressed, Baba B. 89 b. It was thought that the
   market-price should leave to the producer a profit of one-sixth on the
   cost (Baba B. 90 a). In general, the laws on these subjects form a most
   interesting study. Bloch (Mos. Talm. Polizeir.) holds, that there were
   two classes of market-officials. But this is not supported by
   sufficient evidence, nor, indeed, would such an arrangement seem
   likely.

   [561] Sanh. 89 a.

   [562] Erub. x. 9.

   [563] Jos. War v. 8. 1.

   [564] Ibid. ii. 19. 4.

   [565] Tos. Baba Mets. iii.

   [566] That of Botnah was the largest, Jer. Ab. Z. 39 d.

   [567] Kerith. iii. 7; Temur. iii.5.

   [568] Makhsh. vi. 2.

   [569] Kethub. ix. 4.

   [570] Compare here generally Unruh, D. alte Jerusalem.

   [571] St. Mark xiv. 66.

   [572] St. Luke xxiii. 6, 7.

   [573] Jos. War ii. 3. 1.

   [574] Ant. xv. 8. 1.

   [575] Ant. xvii. 10. 2; War ii. 3. 1, 2.

   [576] Tradition exaggerates their number as 460 (Jer. Kethub. 35 c.) or
   even 480 (Jer. Meg. 73 d). But even the large number (proportionally to
   the size of the city) mentioned in the text need not surprise us when
   we remember that ten men were sufficient to form a Synagogue, and how
   many - what may be called private' - Synagogues exist at present in
   every town where there is a large and orthodox Jewish population.

   [577] Baba B. 3 b.

   [578] Bemid. R. 14.

   [579] The occasion is said to have been, that the Rabbis, in answer to
   Herod's question, quoted Deut. xvii. 15. Baba ben Buta himself is said
   to have escaped the slaughter, indeed, but to have been deprived of his
   eyes.

   [580] Baba B. 4 a.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER II.
THE PERSONAL HISTORY OF HEROD - THE TWO WORLDS IN JERUSALEM.

   It is an intensely painful history, [581] in the course of which Herod
   made his way to the throne. We look back nearly two and a half
   centuries to where, with the empire of Alexander, Palestine fell to his
   successors. For nearly a century and a half it continued the
   battle-field of the Egyptian and Syrian kings (the Ptolemies and the
   Seleucidæ). At last it was a corrupt High-Priesthood - with which
   virtually the government of the land had all along lain - that betrayed
   Israel's precious trust. The great-grandson of so noble a figure in
   Jewish history as Simon the Just (compare Ecclus. 1.) bought from the
   Syrians the High-Priestly office of his brother, adopted the heathen
   name Jason, and sought to Grecianise the people. The sacred office
   fell, if possible, even lower when, through bribery, it was transferred
   to his brother Menelaus. Then followed the brief period of the terrible
   persecutions of Antiochus Epiphanes, when Judaism was all but
   exterminated in Palestine. The glorious uprising of the Maccabees
   called forth all the national elements left in Israel, and kindled
   afresh the smouldering religious feeling. It seemed like a revival of
   Old Testament times. And when Judas the Maccabee, with a band so
   inferior in numbers and discipline, defeated the best of the Syrian
   soldiery, led by its ablest generals, and, on the anniversary of its
   desecration by heathen rites, set up again the great altar of
   burnt-offering, it appeared as if a new Theocracy were to be
   inaugurated. The ceremonial of that feast of the new dedication of the
   Temple,' when each night the number of lights grew larger in the
   winter's darkness, seemed symbolic of what was before Israel. But the
   Maccabees were not the Messiah; nor yet the kingdom, which their sword
   would have restored - that of Heaven, with its blessings and peace. If
   ever, Israel might then have learned what Saviour to look for.

   The period even of promise was more brief than might have been
   expected. The fervour and purity of the movement ceased almost with its
   success. It was certainly never the golden age of Israel - not even
   among those who remained faithful to its God - which those seem to
   imagine who, forgetful of its history and contests, would trace to it
   so much that is most precious and spiritual in the Old Testament. It
   may have been the pressure of circumstances, but it was anything but a
   pious, or even a happy' thought [582] of Judas the Maccabee, to seek
   the alliance of the Romans. From their entrance on the scene dates the
   decline of Israel's national cause. For a time, indeed - though after
   varying fortunes of war - all seemed prosperous. The Maccabees became
   both High-Priests and Kings. But party strife and worldliness, ambition
   and corruption, and Grecianism on the throne, soon brought their sequel
   in the decline of morale and vigour, and led to the decay and decadence
   of the Maccabean house. It is a story as old as the Old Testament, and
   as wide as the history of the world. Contention for the throne among
   the Maccabees led to the interference of the foreigner. When, after
   capturing Jerusalem, and violating the sanctity of the Temple, although
   not plundering its treasures, Pompey placed Hyrcanus II. in the
   possession of the High-Priesthood, the last of the Maccabean rulers
   [583] was virtually shorn of power. The country was now tributary to
   Rome, and subject to the Governor of Syria. Even the shadow of
   political power passed from the feeble hands of Hyrcanus when, shortly
   afterwards, Gabinius (one of the Roman governors) divided the land into
   five districts, independent of each other.

   But already a person had appeared on the stage of Jewish affairs, who
   was to give them their last decisive turn. About fifty years before
   this, the district of Idumæa had been conquered by the Maccabean King
   Hyrcanus I., and its inhabitants forced to adopt Judaism. By this
   Idumæa we are not, however, to understand the ancient or Eastern Edom,
   which was now in the hands of the Nabataeans, but parts of Southern
   Palestine which the Edomites had occupied since the Babylonian Exile,
   and especially a small district on the northern and eastern boundary of
   Judæa, and below Samaria. [584] After it became Judæan, its
   administration was entrusted to a governor. In the reign of the last of
   the Maccabees this office devolved on one Antipater, a man of equal
   cunning and determination. He successfully interfered in the unhappy
   dispute for the crown, which was at last decided by the sword of
   Pompey. Antipater took the part of the utterly weak Hyrcanus in that
   contest with his energetic brother Aristobulus. He soon became the
   virtual ruler, and Hyrcanus II. only a puppet in his hands. From the
   accession of Judas Maccabæus, in 166 b.c., to the year 63 b.c., when
   Jerusalem was taken by Pompey, only about a century had elapsed. Other
   twenty-four years, and the last of the Maccabees had given place to the
   son of Antipater: Herod, surnamed the Great.

   The settlement of Pompey did not prove lasting. Aristobulus, the
   brother and defeated rival of Hyrcanus, was still alive, and his sons
   were even more energetic than he. The risings attempted by them, the
   interference of the Parthians on behalf of those who were hostile to
   Rome, and, lastly, the contentions for supremacy in Rome itself, made
   this period one of confusion, turmoil, and constant warfare in
   Palestine. When Pompey was finally defeated by Cæsar, the prospects of
   Antipater and Hycanus seemed dark. But they quickly changed sides; and
   timely help given to Cæsar in Egypt brought to Antipater the title of
   Procurator of Judæa, while Hycanus was left in the High-Priesthood,
   and, at least, nominal head of the people. The two sons of Antipater
   were now made governors: the elder, Phasaelus, of Jerusalem; the
   younger, Herod, only twenty-five years old, of Galilee. Here he
   displayed the energy and determination which were his characteristics,
   in crushing a guerilla warfare, of which the deeper springs were
   probably nationalist. The execution of its leader brought Herod a
   summons to appear before the Great Sanhedrin of Jerusalem, for having
   arrogated to himself the power of life and death. He came, but arrayed
   in purple, surrounded by a body-guard, and supported by the express
   direction of the Roman Governor to Hyrcanus, that he was to be
   acquitted. Even so he would have fallen a victim to the apprehensions
   of the Sanhedrin - only too well grounded - had he not been persuaded
   to withdrawn from the city. He returned at the head of an army, and was
   with difficulty persuaded by his father to spare Jerusalem. Meantime
   Cæsar had named him Governor of Coelesyria.

   On the murder of Cæsar, and the possession of Syria by Cassius,
   Antipater and Herod again changed sides. But they rendered such
   substantial service as to secure favour, and Herod was continued in the
   position conferred on him by Cæsar. Antipater was, indeed, poisoned by
   a rival, but his sons Herod and Phasaelus repressed and extinguished
   all opposition. When the battle of Philippi placed the Roman world in
   the hands of Antony and Octavius, the former obtained Asia. Once more
   the Idumæans knew how to gain the new ruler, and Phasaelus and Herod
   were named Tetrarchs of Judæa. Afterwards, when Antony was held in the
   toils of Cleopatra, matters seemed, indeed, to assume a different
   aspect. The Parthians entered the land, in support of the rival
   Maccabean prince Antigonus, the son of Aristobulus. By treachery,
   Phasaelus and Hyrcanus were induced to go to the Parthian camp, and
   made captives. Phasaelus shortly afterwards destroyed himself in his
   prison, [585] while Hyrcanus was deprived of his ears, to unfit him for
   the High-Priestly office. And so Antigonus for a short time succeeded
   both to the High-Priesthood and royalty in Jerusalem. Meantime Herod,
   who had in vain warned his brother and Hyrcanus against the Parthian,
   had been able to make his escape from Jerusalem. His family he left to
   the defence of his brother Joseph, in the inaccessible fortress of
   Masada; himself fled into Arabia, and finally made his way to Rome.
   There he succeeded, not only with Antony, but obtained the consent of
   Octavius, and was proclaimed by the Senate King of Judæa. A sacrifice
   on the Capitol, and a banquet by Antony, celebrated the accession of
   the new successor of David.

   But he had yet to conquer his kingdom. At first he made way by the help
   of the Romans. Such success, however, as he had gained, was more than
   lost during his brief absence on a visit to Antony. Joseph, the brother
   of Herod, was defeated and slain, and Galilee, which had been subdued,
   revolted again. But the aid which the Romans rendered, after Herod's
   return from Antony, was much more hearty, and his losses were more than
   retrieved. Soon all Palestine, with the exception of Jerusalem, was in
   his hands. While laying siege to it, he went to Samaria, there to wed
   the beautiful Maccabean princess Mariamme, who had been betrothed to
   him five years before. [586] That ill-fated Queen, and her elder
   brother Aristobulus, united in themselves the two rival branches of the
   Maccabean family. Their father was Alexander, the eldest son of
   Aristobulus, and brother of that Antigonus whom Herod now besieged in
   Jerusalem; and their mother, Alexandra, the daughter of Hyrcanus II.
   The uncle of Mariamme was not long able to hold out against the
   combined forces of Rome and Herod. The carnage was terrible. When
   Herod, by rich presents, at length induced the Romans to leave
   Jerusalem, they took Antigonus with them. By desire of Herod he was
   executed.

   This was the first of the Maccabees who fell victim to his jealousy and
   cruelty. The history which now follows is one of sickening carnage. The
   next to experience his vengeance were the principal adherents in
   Jerusalem of his rival Antigonus. Forty-five of the noblest and richest
   were executed. His next step was to appoint an abscure Babylonian to
   the High-Priesthood. This awakened the active hostility of Alexandra,
   the mother of Marimme, Herod's wife. The Maccabean princess claimed the
   High-Priesthood for her son Aristobulus. Her intrigues with Cleopatra -
   and through her with Antony - and the entreaties of Mariamme, the only
   being whom Herod loved, though in his own mad way, prevailed. At the
   age of seventeen Aristobulus was made High-Priest. But Herod, who well
   knew the hatred and contempt of the Maccabean members of his family,
   had his mother-in-law watched, a precaution increased after the vain
   attempt of Alexandra to have herself and her son removed in coffins
   from Jerusalem, to flee to Cleopatra. Soon the jealousy and suspicions
   of Herod were raised to murderous madness, by the acclamations which
   greeted the young Aristobulus at the Feast of Tabernacles. So dangerous
   a Maccabean rival must be got rid of; and, by secret order of Herod,
   Aristobulus was drowned while bathing. His mother denounced the
   murderer, and her influence with Cleopatra, who also hated Herod, led
   to his being summoned before Antony. Once more bribery, indeed,
   prevailed; but other troubles awaited Herod.

   When obeying the summons of Antony, Herod had committed the government
   to his uncle Joseph, who was also his brother-in-law, having wedded
   Salome, the sister of Herod. His mad jealousy had prompted him to
   direct that, in case of his condemnation, Mariamme was to be killed,
   that she might not become the wife of another. Unfortunately, Joseph
   told this to Mariamme, to show how much she was loved. But on the
   return of Herod, the infamous Salome accused her old husband of
   impropriety with Mariamme. When it appeared that Joseph had told the
   Queen of his commission, Herod, regarding it as confirming his sister's
   charge, ordered him to be executed, without even a hearing. External
   complications of the gravest kind now supervened. Herod had to cede to
   Cleopatra the districts of Phoenice and Philistia, and that of Jericho
   with its rich balsam plantations. Then the dissensions between Antony
   and Octavius involved him, in the cause of the former, in a war with
   Arabia, whose king had failed to pay tribute to Cleopatra. Herod was
   victorious; but he had now to reckon with another master. The battle of
   Actium [587] decided the fate on Antony, and Herod had to make his
   peace with Octavius. Happily, he was able to do good service to the new
   cause, ere presenting himself before Augustus. But, in order to be
   secure from all possible rivals, he had the aged Hyrcanus II. executed,
   on pretence of intrigues with the Arabs. Herod was successful with
   Augustus; and when, in the following summer, he furnished him supplies
   on his march to Egypt, he was rewarded by a substantial addition of
   territory.

   When about to appear before Augustus, Herod had entrusted to one Soemus
   the charge of Mariamme, with the same fatal directions as formerly to
   Joseph. Again Mariamme learnt the secret; again the old calumnies were
   raised - this time not only by Salome, but also by Kypros, Herod's
   mother; and again Herod imagined he had found corroborative evidence.
   Soemus was slain without a hearing, and the beautiful Mariamme executed
   after a mock trail. The most fearful paroxysm of remorse, passion, and
   longing for his murdered wife now seized the tyrant, and brought him to
   the brink of the grave. Alexandra, the mother of Mariamme, deemed the
   moment favorable for her plots - but she was discovered, and executed.
   Of the Maccabean race there now remained only distant members, the sons
   of Babas, who had found an asylum with Costobarus, the Governor of
   Idumæa, who had wedded Salome after the death of her first husband.
   Tired of him, as she had been of Joseph, Salome denounced her second
   husband; and Costobarus, as well as the sons of Babas, fell victims to
   Herod. Thus perished the family of the Maccabees.

   The hand of the maddened tyrant was next turned against his own family.
   Of his ten wives, we mention only those whose children occupy a place
   in this history. The son of Doris was Antipater; those of the Maccabean
   Mariamme, Alexander and Aristobulus; another Mariamme, whose father
   Herod had made High-Priest, bore him a son named Herod (a name which
   other of the sons shared); Malthake, a Samaritan, was the mother of
   Archelaus and Herod Antipas; and, lastly, Cleopatra of Jerusalem bore
   Philip. The sons of the Maccabean princess, as heirs presumptive, were
   sent to Rome for their education. On this occasion Herod received, as
   reward for many services, the country east of the Jordan, and was
   allowed to appoint his still remaining brother, Pheroras, Tetrarch of
   Peræa. On their return from Rome the young princes were married:
   Alexander to a daughter of the King of Cappadocia, and Aristobulus to
   his cousin Berenice, the daughter of Salome. But neither kinship, nor
   the yet nearer relation in which Aristobulus now stood to her, could
   extinguish the hatred of Salome towards the dead Maccabean princess or
   her children. Nor did the young princes, in their pride of descent,
   disguise their feelings towards the house of their father. At first,
   Herod gave not heed to the denunciations of his sister. Presently he
   yielded to vague apprehensions. As a first step, Antipater, the son of
   Doris, was recalled from exile, and sent to Rome for education. So the
   breach became open; and Herod took his sons to Italy, to lay formal
   accusation against them before Augustus. The wise counsels of the
   Emperor restored peace for a time. But Antipater now returned to
   Palestine, and joined his calumnies to those of Salome. Once more the
   King of Cappadocia succeeded in reconciling Herod and his sons. But in
   the end the intrigues of Salome, Antipater, and of an infamous
   foreigner who had made his way at Court, prevailed. Alexander and
   Aristobulus were imprisoned, and an accusation of high treason laid
   against them before the Emperor. Augustus gave Herod full powers, but
   advised the convocation of a mixed tribunal of Jews and Romans to try
   the case. As might have been expected, the two princes were condemned
   to death, and when some old soldiers ventured to intercede for them,
   300 of the supposed adherents of the cause were cut down, and the two
   princes strangled in prison. This happened in Samaria, where, thirty
   years before, Herod had wedded their ill-fated mother.

   Antipater was now the heir presumptive. But, impatient of the throne,
   he plotted with Herod's brother, Pheroras, against his father. Again
   Salome denounced her nephew and her brother. Antipater withdrew to
   Rome; but when, after the death of Pheraras, Herod obtained indubitable
   evidence that his son had plotted against his life, he lured Antipater
   to Palestine, where on his arrival he was cast into prison. All that
   was needed was the permission of Augustus for his execution. It
   arrived, and was carried out only five days before the death of Herod
   himself. So ended a reign almost unparalleled for reckless cruelty and
   bloodshed, in which the murder of the Innocents in Bethlehem formed but
   so trifling an episode among the many deeds of blood, as to have seemed
   not deserving of record on the page of the Jewish historian.

   But we can understand the feelings of the people towards such a King.
   They hated the Idumæan; they detested his semi-heathen reign; they
   abhorred his deeds of cruelty. the King had surrounded himself with
   foreign councillors, and was protected by foreign mercenaries from
   Thracia, Germany, and Gaul. [588] So long as he lived, no woman's
   honour was safe, no man's life secure. An army of all-powerful spies
   pervaded Jerusalem - nay, the King himself was said to stoop to that
   office. [589] If pique or private enmity led to denunciation, the
   torture would extract any confession from the most innocent. What his
   relation to Judaism had been, may easily be inferred. He would be a Jew
   - even build the Temple, advocate the cause of the Jews in other lands,
   and, in a certain sense, conform to the Law of Judaism. In building the
   Temple, he was so anxious to conciliate national prejudice, that the
   Sanctuary itself was entrusted to the workmanship of priests only. Nor
   did he ever intrude into the Holy Place, nor interfere with any
   functions of the priesthood. None of his coins bear devices which could
   have shocked popular feeling, nor did any of the buildings he erected
   in Jerusalem exhibit any forbidden emblems. The Sanhedrin did exist
   during his reign, [590] though it must have been shorn of all real
   power, and its activity confined to ecclesiastical, or
   semi-ecclesiastical, causes. Strangest of all, he seems to have had at
   least the passive support of two of the greatest Rabbis - the Pollio
   and Sameas of Josephus [591] - supposed to represent those great
   figures in Jewish tradition, Abtalion and Shemajah. [592] [593] We can
   but conjecture, that they preferred even his rule to what had preceded;
   and hoped it might lead to a Roman Protectorate, which would leave
   Judæa practically independent, or rather under Rabbinc rule.

   It was also under the government of Herod, that Hillel and Shammai
   lived and taught in Jerusalem: [594] the two, whom tradition designates
   as the fathers of old.' [595] Both gave their names to schools,' whose
   direction was generally different - not unfrequently, it seems, chiefly
   for the sake of opposition. But it is not correct to describe the
   former as consistently the more liberal and mild. [596] The teaching of
   both was supposed to have been declared by the Voice from Heaven' (the
   Bath-Qol) as the words of the living God;' yet the Law was to be
   henceforth according to the teaching of Hillel. [597] But to us Hillel
   is so intensely interesting, not merely as the mild and gentle, nor
   only as the earnest student who came from Babylon to learn in the
   Academies of Jerusalem; who would support his family on a third of his
   scanty wages as a day labourer, that he might pay for entrance into the
   schools; and whose zeal and merits were only discovered when, after a
   severe night, in which, from poverty, he had been unable to gain
   admittance into the Academy, his benumbed form was taken down from the
   window-sill, to which he had crept up not to lose aught of the precious
   instruction. And for his sake did they gladly break on that Sabbath the
   sacred rest. Nor do we think of him, as tradition fables him - the
   descendant of David, [598] possessed of every great quality of body,
   mind, and heart; nor yet as the second Ezra, whose learning placed him
   at the head of the Sanhedrin, who laid down the principles afterwards
   applied and developed by Rabbinism, and who was the real founder of
   traditionalism. Still less do we think of him, as he is falsely
   represented by some: as he whose principles closely resemble the
   teaching of Jesus, or, according to certain writers, were its source.
   By the side of Jesus we think of him otherwise than this. We remember
   that, in his extreme old age and near his end, he may have presided
   over that meeting of Sanhedrin which, in answer to Herod's inquiry,
   pointed to Bethlehem as the birthplace of the Messiah. [599] [600] We
   think of him also as the grandfather of that Gamaliel, at whose feet
   Saul of Tarsus sat. And to us he is the representative Jewish reformer,
   in the spirit of those times, and in the sense of restoring rather than
   removing; while we think of Jesus as the Messiah of Israel, in the
   sense of bringing the Kingdom of God to all men, and opening it to all
   believers.

   And so there were two worlds in Jerusalem, side by side. On the one
   hand, was Grecianism with its theatre and amphitheatre; foreigners
   filling the Court, and crowding the city; foreign tendencies and ways,
   from the foreign King downwards. On the other hand, was the old Jewish
   world, becoming now set and ossified in the Schools of Hillel and
   Shammai, and overshadowed by Temple and Synagogue. And each was
   pursuing its course, by the side of the other. If Herod had everywhere
   his spies, the Jewish law provided its two police magistrates in
   Jerusalem, the only judges who received renumeration. [601] [602] If
   Herod judged cruelly and despotically, the Sanhedrin weighed most
   deliberately, the balance always inclining to mercy. If Greek was the
   language of the court and camp, and indeed must have been understood
   and spoken by most in the land, the language of the people, spoken also
   by Christ and His Apostles, was a dialect of the ancient Hebrew, the
   Western or Palestinian Aramaic. [603] It seems strange, that this could
   ever have been doubted. [604] A Jewish Messiah Who would urge His claim
   upon Israel in Greek, seems almost a contradiction in terms. We know,
   that the language of the Temple and the Synagogue was Hebrew, and that
   the addresses of the Rabbis had to be targumed' into the vernacular
   Aramæan - and can we believe that, in a Hebrew service, the Messiah
   could have risen to address the people in Greek, or that He would have
   argued with the Pharisees and Scribes in that tongue, especially
   remembering that its study was actually forbidden by the Rabbis? [605]

   Indeed, it was a peculiar mixture of two worlds in Jerusalem: not only
   of the Grecian and the Jewish, but of piety and frivolity also. The
   devotion of the people and the liberality of the rich were unbounded.
   Fortunes were lavished on the support of Jewish learning, the promotion
   of piety, or the advance of the national cause. Thousands of votive
   offerings, and the costly gifts in the Temple, bore evidence of this.
   Priestly avarice had artificially raised the price of sacrificial
   animals, a rich man would bring into the Temple at his own cost the
   number requisite for the poor. Charity was not only open-handed, but
   most delicate, and one who had been in good circumstances would
   actually be enabled to live according to his former station. [606] Then
   these Jerusalemites - townspeople, as they called themselves - were so
   polished, so witty, so pleasant. There was a tact in their social
   intercourse, and a considerateness and delicacy in their public
   arrangements and provisions, nowhere else to be found. Their very
   language was different. There was a Jerusalem dialect, [607] quicker,
   shorter, lighter' (Lishna Qalila). [608] And their hospitality,
   especially at festive seasons, was unlimited. No one considered his
   house his own, and no stranger or pilgrim but found reception. And how
   much there was to be seen and heard in those luxuriously furnished
   houses, and at those sumptuous entertainments! In the women's
   apartments, friends from the country would see every novelty in dress,
   adornment, and jewellery, and have the benefit of examining themselves
   in looking-glasses. To be sure, as being womanish vanity, their use was
   interdicted to men, except it were to the members of the family of the
   President of the Sanhedrin, on account of their intercourse with those
   in authority, just as for the same reason they were allowed to learn
   Greek. [609] Nor might even women look in the glass on the Sabbath.
   [610] But that could only apply to those carried in the hand, since one
   might be tempted, on the holy day, to do such servile work as to pull
   out a grey hair with the pincers attached to the end of the glass; but
   not to a glass fixed in the lid of a basket; [611] nor to such as hung
   on the wall. [612] And then the lady-visitor might get anything in
   Jerusalem; from a false tooth to an Arabian veil, a Persian shawl, or
   an Indian dress!

   While the women so learned Jerusalem manners in the inner apartments,
   the men would converse on the news of the day, or on politics. For the
   Jerusalemites had friends and correspondents in the most distant parts
   of the world, and letters were carried by special messengers, [613] in
   a kind of post-bag. Nay, there seem to have been some sort of
   receiving-offices in towns, [614] and even something resembling our
   parcel-post. [615] And, strange as it may sound, even a species of
   newspapers, or broadsheets, appears to have been circulating
   (Mikhtabhin), not allowed, however, on the Sabbath, unless they treated
   of public affairs. [616]

   Of course, it is difficult accurately to determine which of these
   things were in use in the earliest times, or else introduced at a later
   period. Perhaps, however, it was safer to bring them into a picture of
   Jewish society. Undoubted, and, alas, too painful evidence comes to us
   of the luxuriousness of Jerusalem at that time, and of the moral
   corruption to which it led. It seems only too clear, that such
   commentations as the Talmud [617] gives of Is. iii. 16-24, in regard to
   the manners and modes of attraction practised by a certain class of the
   female population in Jerusalem, applied to a far later period than that
   of the prophet. With this agrees only too well the recorded covert
   lascivious expressions used by the men, which gives a lamentable
   picture of the state of morals of many in the city, [618] and the
   notices of the indecent dress worn not only by women, [619] but even by
   corrupt High-Priestly youths. Nor do the exaggerated descriptions of
   what the Midrash on Lamentations [620] describes as the dignity of the
   Jerusalemites; of the wealth which they lavished on their marriages; of
   the ceremony which insisted on repeated invitations to the guests to a
   banquet, and that men inferior in rank should not be bidden to it; of
   the dress in which they appeared; the manner in which the dishes were
   served, the wine in white crystal vases; and the punishment of the cook
   who had failed in his duty, and which was to be commensurate to the
   dignity of the party - give a better impression of the great world in
   Jerusalem.

   And yet it was the City of God, over whose destruction not only the
   Patriarch and Moses, but the Angelic hosts - nay, the Almighty Himself
   and His Shekhinah - had made bitterest lamentation. [621] The City of
   the Prophets, also, since each of them whose birthplace had not been
   mentioned, must be regarded as having sprung from it. [622] Equally,
   even more, marked, but now for joy and triumph, would be the hour of
   Jerusalem's uprising, when it would welcome its Messiah. Oh, when would
   He come? In the feverish excitement of expectancy they were only too
   ready to listen to the voice of any pretender, however coarse and
   clumsy the imposture. Yet He was at hand - even now coming: only quite
   other than the Messiah of their dreams. He came unto His own, and His
   own received Him not. But as many as received Him, to them gave He
   power to become children of God, even to them that believe on His
   Name.'
     __________________________________________________________________

   [581] For a fuller sketch of this history see Appendix IV.

   [582] So Schürer in his Neutestam. Zeitgesch.

   [583] A table of the Maccabean and Herodian families is given in
   Appendix VI.

   [584] Comp. 1 Macc. vi. 31.

   [585] By dashing out his brains against the prison walls.

   [586] He had previously been married to one Doris, the issue of the
   marriage being a son, Antipater.

   [587] 31 b.c.

   [588] Jos. Ant. xvii. 8. 3.

   [589] Ant. xv. 10. 4.

   [590] Comp. the discussion of this question in Wieseler, Beitr. pp. 215
   &c.

   [591] Ant. xiv. 9. 4; xv. 1. 1, 10. 4.

   [592] Ab. i. 10, 11.

   [593] Even their recorded fundamental principles bear this out. That of
   Shemajah was: Love labour, hate lordship, and do not push forward to
   the authorities.' That of Abtalion was: Ye sages, be careful in your
   words, lest perchance ye incur banishment, and are exiled to a place of
   bad waters, and the disciples who follow you drink of them and die, and
   so in the end the name of God be profaned.'

   [594] On Hillel and Shammai see the article in Herzog's Real-Encyklop.;
   that in Hamburger's; Delitzsch, Jesus u. Hillel. and books on Jewish
   history generally.

   [595] Eduj. 1. 4.

   [596] A number of points on which the ordinances of Hillel were more
   severe than those of Shammai are enumerated in Eduj. iv. 1-12; v. 1-4;
   Ber. 36 a, end. Comp. also Ber. R. 1.

   [597] Jer. Ber. 3 b, lines 3 and 2 from bottom.

   [598] Ber. R. 98.

   [599] St.Matt. ii. 4.

   [600] On the chronology of the life of Hillel &c., see also Schmilg,
   Ueb. d. Entsteh. &c. der Megillath Taanith, especially p. 34. Hillel is
   said to have become Chief of the Sanhedrin in 30 b.c., and to have held
   the office for forty years. These numbers, however, are no doubt
   somewhat exaggerated.

   [601] Jer. Kethub. 35 c; Kethub. 104 b.

   [602] The police laws of the Rabbis might well serve us as a model for
   all similar legislation.

   [603] At the same time I can scarcely agree with Delitzsch and others,
   that this was the dialect called Sursi. The latter was rather Syriac.
   Comp. Levy, ad voc.

   [604] Professor Roberts has advocated, with great ingenuity, the view
   that Christ and His Apostles used the Greek language. See especially
   his Discussions on the Gospels.' The Roman Catholic Church sometimes
   maintained, that Jesus and His disciples spoke Latin, and in 1822 a
   work appeared by Black to prove that the N.T. Greek showed a Latin
   origin.

   [605] For a full statement of the arguments on this subject we refer
   the student to Böhl, Forsch. n. e. Volksbibel z. Zeit Jesu, pp. 4-28;
   to the latter work by the same writer (Aittestam. Citate im N. Test.);
   to a very interesting article by Professor Delitzsch in the Daheim' for
   1874 (No. 27); to Buxtorf, sub Gelil; to J. D. Goldberg, The Language
   of Christ'; but especially to F. de Rossi, Della lingua prop. di Cristo
   (Parma 1772).

   [606] Thus Hillel was said to have hired a horse, and even an
   outrunner, for a decayed rich man.

   [607] Bemid. R. 14; ed. Warsh. p. 59 a.

   [608] Baba K.

   [609] Jer.Shabb. 7 d.

   [610] Shabb. 149 a.

   [611] Kel. xiv. 6.

   [612] Tos. Shabb. xiii. ed. Zuckerm. p. 130.

   [613] Shabb. x. 4.

   [614] Shabb. 19 a.

   [615] Rosh haSh. 9 b.

   [616] Tos. Shabb. xviii.

   [617] Shabb. 62 b.

   [618] Comp. Shabb. 62 b, last line and first of 63 a.

   [619] Kel. xxiv. 16; xxviii. 9.

   [620] On ch. iv 2.

   [621] See the Introduction to the Midrash on Lamentations. But some of
   the descriptions are so painful - even blasphemous - that we do not
   venture on quotation.

   [622] Meg. 15 a.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER III.
THE ANNUNCIATION OF ST. JOHN THE BAPTIST

   (St. Luke i. 5-25.)

   It was the time of the Morning Sacrifice. [623] As the massive Temple
   gates slowly swung on their hinges, a three-fold blast from the silver
   trumpets of the Priests seemed to waken the City, as with the Voice of
   God, to the life of another day. As its echoes came in the still air
   across the cleft of the Tyropoeon, up the slopes of the Upper City,
   down the busy quarters below, or away to the new suburb beyond, they
   must, if but for a moment, have brought holier thoughts to all. For,
   did it not seem to link the present to the past and the future, as with
   the golden chain of promises that bound the Holy City to the Jerusalem
   that was above, which in type had already, and in reality would soon
   descend from heaven? Patriot, saint, or stranger, he could not have
   heard it unmoved, as thrice the summons from within the Temple-gates
   rose and fell.

   It had not come too soon. The Levites on ministry, and those of the
   laity, whose course' it was to act as the representatives of Israel,
   whether in Palestine or far away, in a sacrifice provided by, and
   offered for, all Israel, hastened to their duties. [624] For already
   the blush of dawn, for which the Priest on the highest pinnacle of the
   Temple had watched, to give the signal for beginning the services of
   the day, had shot its brightness far away to Hebron and beyond. Within
   the Courts below all had long been busy. At some time previously,
   unknown to those who waited for the morning - whether at cockcrowing,
   or a little earlier or later, [625] the superintending Priest had
   summoned to their sacred functions those who had washed,' according to
   the ordinance. There must have been each day about fifty priests on
   duty. [626] Such of them as were ready now divided into two parties, to
   make inspection of the Temple courts by torchlight. Presently they met,
   and trooped to the well-known Hall of Hewn Polished Stones, [627] where
   formerly the Sanhedrin had been wont to sit. The ministry for the day
   was there apportioned. To prevent the disputes of carnal zeal, the lot'
   was to assign to each his function. Four times was it resorted to:
   twice before, and twice after the Temple-gates were opened. The first
   act of their ministry had to be done in the grey dawn, by the fitful
   red light that glowed on the altar of burnt offering, ere the priests
   had stirred it into fresh flame. It was scarcely daybreak, when a
   second time they met for the lot,' which designated those who were to
   take part in the sacrifice itself, and who were to trim the golden
   candlestick, and make ready the altar of incense within the Holy Place.
   And now morn had broken, and nothing remained before the admission of
   worshippers but to bring out the lamb, once again to make sure of its
   fitness for sacrifice, to water it from a golden bowl, and then to lay
   it in mystic fashion - as tradition described the binding of Isaac - on
   the north side of the altar, with its face to the west.

   All, priests and laity, were present as the Priest, standing on the
   east side of the altar, from a golden bowl sprinkled with sacrificial
   blood two sides of the altar, below the red line which marked the
   difference between ordinary sacrifices and those that were to be wholly
   consumed. While the sacrifice was prepared for the altar, the priests,
   whose lot it was, had made ready all within the Holy Place, where the
   most solemn part of the day's service was to take place - that of
   offering the incense, which symbolised Israel's accepted prayers. Again
   was the lot (the third) cast to indicate him, who was to be honoured
   with this highest mediatorial act. Only once in a lifetime might any
   one enjoy that privilege. [628] Henceforth he was called rich,' [629]
   and must leave to his brethren the hope of the distinction which had
   been granted him. It was fitting that, as the custom was, such lot
   should be preceded by prayer and confession of their faith [630] on the
   part of the assembled priests.

   It was the first week in October 748 a.u.c., [631] that is, in the
   sixth year before our present era, when the course of Abia' [632] - the
   eighth in the original arrangement of the weekly service - was on duty
   in the Temple. True this, as indeed most of the twenty-four courses'
   into which the Priesthood had been arranged, could not claim identity,
   only continuity, with those whose names they bore. For only three, or
   at most four, of the ancient courses' had returned from Babylon. But
   the original arrangement had been preserved, the names of the missing
   courses being retained, and their number filled up by lot from among
   those who had come back to Palestine. In our ignorance of the number of
   houses of their father,' or families,' which constituted the course of
   Abia,' it is impossible to determine, how the services of that week had
   been apportioned among them. But this is of comparatively small
   importance, since there is no doubt about the central figure in the
   scene.

   In the group ranged that autumn morning around the superintending
   Priest was one, on whom the snows of at least sixty winters had fallen.
   [633] But never during these many years had he been honoured with the
   office of incensing - and it was perhaps well he should have learned,
   that this distinction came direct from God. Yet the venerable figure of
   Zacharias must have been well known in the Temple. For, each course was
   twice a year on ministry, and, unlike the Levites, the priests were not
   disqualified by age, but only by infirmity. In many respects he seemed
   different from those around. His home was not in either of the great
   priest-centres - the Ophel-quarter in Jerusalem, nor in Jericho [634] -
   but in some small town in those uplands, south of Jerusalem: the
   historic hill-country of Judea.' And yet he might have claimed
   distinction. To be a priest, and married to the daughter of a priest,
   was supposed to convey twofold honour. [635] That he was surrounded by
   relatives and friends, and that he was well known and respected
   throughout his district, appears incidentally from the narrative. [636]
   It would, indeed, have been strange had it been otherwise. There was
   much in the popular habits of thought, as well as in the office and
   privileges of the Priesthood, if worthily represented, to invest it
   with a veneration which the aggressive claims of Rabbinism could not
   wholly monopolise. And in this instance Zacharias and Elisabeth, his
   wife, were truly righteous,' [637] in the sense of walking, so far as
   man could judge, blamelessly,' alike in those commandments which were
   specially binding on Israel, and in those statutes that were of
   universal bearing on mankind. [638] No doubt their piety assumed in
   some measure the form of the time, being, if we must use the
   expression, Pharisaic, though in the good, not the evil sense of it.

   There is much about those earlier Rabbis - Hillel, Gamaliel, and others
   - to attract us, and their spirit ofttimes sharply contrasts with the
   narrow bigotry, the self-glory, and the unspiritual externalism of
   their successors. We may not unreasonably infer, that the Tsaddiq in
   the quiet home of the hill-country was quite other than the
   self-asserting Rabbi, whose dress and gait, voice and manner, words and
   even prayers, were those of the religious parvenu, pushing his claims
   to distinction before angels and men. Such a household as that of
   Zacharias and Elisabeth would have all that was beautiful in the
   religion of the time: devotion towards God; a home of affection and
   purity; reverence towards all that was sacred in things Divine and
   human; ungrudging, self-denying, loving charity to the poor; the
   tenderest regard for the feelings of others, so as not to raise a
   blush, nor to wound their hearts; [639] above all, intense faith and
   hope in the higher and better future of Israel. Of such, indeed, there
   must have been not a few in the land - the quiet, the prayerful, the
   pious, who, though certainly not Sadducees nor Essenes, but reckoned
   with the Pharisaic party, waited for the consolation of Israel, and
   received it with joy when manifested. Nor could aught more certainly
   have marked the difference between the one and the other section than
   on a matter, which must almost daily, and most painfully have forced
   itself on Zacharias and Elisabeth. There were among the Rabbis those
   who, remembering the words of the prophet, [640] spoke in most pathetic
   language of the wrong of parting from the wife of youth, [641] and
   there were those to whom the bare fact of childlessness rendered
   separation a religious duty. [642] Elisabeth was childless. For many a
   year this must have been the burden of Zacharias' prayer; the burden
   also of reproach, which Elisabeth seemed always to carry with her. They
   had waited together these many years, till in the evening of life the
   flower of hope had closed its fragrant cup; and still the two sat
   together in the twilight, content to wait in loneliness, till night
   would close around them.

   But on that bright autumn morning in the Temple no such thoughts would
   come to Zacharias. For the first, and for the last time in life the lot
   had marked him for incensing, and every thought must have centred on
   what was before him. Even outwardly, all attention would be requisite
   for the proper performance of his office. First, he had to choose two
   of his special friends or relatives, to assist in his sacred service.
   Their duties were comparatively simple. One reverently removed what had
   been left on the altar from the previous evening's service; then,
   worshipping, retired backwards. The second assistant now advanced, and,
   having spread to the utmost verge of the golden altar the live coals
   taken from that of burnt-offering, worshipped and retired. Meanwhile
   the sound of the organ' (the Magrephah), heard to the most distant
   parts of the Temple, and, according to tradition, far beyond its
   precincts, had summoned priests, Levites, and people to prepare for
   whatever service or duty was before them. For, this was the innermost
   part of the worship of the day. But the celebrant Priest, bearing the
   golden censer, stood alone within the Holy Place, lit by the sheen of
   the seven-branched candlestick. Before him - somewhat farther away,
   towards the heavy Veil that hung before the Holy of Holies, was the
   golden altar of incense, on which the red coals glowed. To his right
   (the left of the altar - that is, on the north side) was the table of
   shewbread; to his left, on the right or south side of the altar, was
   the golden candlestick. And still he waited, as instructed to do, till
   a special signal indicated, that the moment had come to spread the
   incense on the altar, as near as possible to the Holy of Holies.
   Priests and people had reverently withdrawn from the neighbourhood of
   the altar, and were prostrate before the Lord, offering unspoken
   worship, in which record of past deliverance, longing for mercies
   promised in the future, and entreaty for present blessing and peace,
   [643] seemed the ingredients of the incense, that rose in a fragrant
   cloud of praise and prayer. Deep silence had fallen on the worshippers,
   as if they watched to heaven the prayers of Israel, ascending in the
   cloud of odours' that rose from the golden altar in the Holy Place.
   [644] Zacharias waited, until he saw the incense kindling. Then he also
   would have bowed down in worship,' and reverently withdrawn, [645] had
   not a wondrous sight arrested his steps.

   On the right (or south) side of the altar, between it and the golden
   candlestick, stood what he could not but recognise as an Angelic form.
   [646] Never, indeed, had even tradition reported such a vision to an
   ordinary Priest in the act of incensing. The two super-natural
   apparitions recorded - one of an Angel each year of the Pontificate of
   Simon the Just; the other in that blasphemous account of the vision of
   the Almighty by Ishmael, the son of Elisha, and of the conversation
   which then ensued [647] [648] - had both been vouchsafed to
   High-Priests, and on the Day of Atonement. Still, there was always
   uneasiness among the people as any mortal approached the immediate
   Presence of God, and every delay in his return seemed ominous. [649] No
   wonder, then, that Zacharias was troubled, and fear fell on him,' as of
   a sudden - probably just after he had spread the incense on the altar,
   and was about to offer his parting prayer - he beheld what afterwards
   he knew to be the Angel Gabriel (the might of God'). Apart from higher
   considerations, there could perhaps be no better evidence of the truth
   of this narrative than its accord with psychological facts. An
   Apocryphal narrative would probably have painted the scene in agreement
   with what, in the view of such a writer, should have been the feelings
   of Zacharias, and the language of the Angel. [650] The Angel would have
   commenced by referring to Zacharias' prayers for the coming of a
   Messiah, and Zacharias would have been represented in a highly
   enthusiastic state. Instead of the strangely prosaic objection which he
   offered to the Angelic announcement, there would have been a burst of
   spiritual sentiment, or what passed for such. But all this would have
   been psychologically untrue. There are moments of moral faintness, so
   to spseak, when the vital powers of the spiritual heart are depressed,
   and, as in the case of the Disciples on the Mount of Transfiguration
   and in the Garden of Gethsemane, the physical part of our being and all
   that is weakest in us assert their power.

   It was true to this state of semi-consciousness, that the Angel first
   awakened within Zacharias the remembrance of life-long prayers and
   hopes, which had now passed into the background of his being, and then
   suddenly startled him by the promise of their realisation. But that
   Child of so many prayers, who was to bear the significant name of John
   (Jehochanan, or Jochanan), the Lord is gracious,' was to be the source
   of joy and gladness to a far wider circle than that of the family. This
   might be called the first rung of the ladder by which the Angel would
   take the priest upwards. Nor was even this followed by an immediate
   disclosure of what, in such a place, and from such a messenger, must
   have carried to a believing heart the thrill of almost unspeakable
   emotion. Rather was Zacharias led upwards, step by step. The Child was
   to be great before the Lord; not only an ordinary, but a life-Nazarite,
   [651] as Samson and Samuel of old had been. Like them, he was not to
   consecrate himself, but from the inception of life wholly to belong to
   God, for His work. And, greater than either of these representatives of
   the symbolical import of Nazarism, he would combine the twofold meaning
   of their mission - outward and inward might in God, only in a higher
   and more spiritual sense. For this life-work he would be filled with
   the Holy Ghost, from the moment life woke within him. Then, as another
   Samson, would he, in the strength of God, lift the axe to each tree to
   be felled, and, like another Samuel, turn many of the children of
   Israel to the Lord their God. Nay, combining these two missions, as did
   Elijah on Mount Carmel, he should, in accordance with prophecy, [652]
   precede the Messianic manifestation, and, not indeed in the person or
   form, but in the spirit and power of Elijah, accomplish the typical
   meaning of his mission, as on that day of decision it had risen as the
   burden of his prayer [653] - that is, in the words of prophecy, [654]
   turn the heart of the fathers to the children,' which, in view of the
   coming dispensation, would be the disobedient (to walk) in the wisdom
   of the just.' [655] Thus would this new Elijah make ready for the Lord
   a people prepared.'

   If the apparition of the Angel, in that place, and at that time, had
   overwhelmed the aged priest, the words which he heard must have filled
   him with such bewilderment, that for the moment he scarcely realised
   their meaning. One idea alone, which had struck its roots so long in
   his consciousness, stood out: A son - while, as it were in the dim
   distance beyond, stretched, as covered with a mist of glory, all those
   marvellous things that were to be connected with him. So, when age or
   strong feeling renders us almost insensible to the present, it is ever
   that which connects itself with the past, rather than with the present,
   which emerges first and strongest in our consciousness. And so it was
   the obvious doubt, that would suggest itself, which fell from his lips
   - almost unconscious of what he said. Yet there was in his words an
   element of faith also, or at least of hope, as he asked for some pledge
   or confirmation of what he had heard.

   It is this demand of some visible sign, by which to know' all that the
   Angel had promised, which distinguishes the doubt of Zacharias from
   that of Abraham, [656] or of Manoah and his wife, [657] under somewhat
   similar circumstances - although, otherwise also, even a cursory
   reading must convey the impression of most marked differences. Nor
   ought we perhaps to forget, that we are on the threshold of a
   dispensation, to which faith is the only entrance. This door Zacharias
   was now to hold ajar, a dumb messenger. He that would not speak the
   praises of God, but asked a sign, received it. His dumbness was a sign
   - though the sign, as it were the dumb child of the prayer of unbelief,
   was its punishment also. And yet, when rightly applied, a sign in
   another sense also - a sign to the waiting multitude in the Temple; a
   sign to Elisabeth; to all who knew Zacharias in the hill-country; and
   to the priest himself, during those nine months of retirement and
   inward solitude; a sign also that would kindle into flame in the day
   when God would loosen his tongue.

   A period of unusual length had passed, since the signal for incensing
   had been given. The prayers of the people had been offered, and their
   anxious gaze was directed towards the Holy Place. At last Zacharias
   emerged to take his stand on the top of the steps which led from the
   Porch to the Court of the Priests, waiting to lead in the priestly
   benediction, [658] that preceded the daily meat-offering and the chant
   of the Psalms of praise, accompanied with joyous sound of music, as the
   drink-offering was poured out. But already the sign of Zacharias was to
   be a sign to all the people. The pieces of the sacrifices had been
   ranged in due order on the altar of burnt-offering; the priests stood
   on the steps to the porch, and the people were in waiting. Zacharias
   essayed to speak the words of benediction, unconscious that the stoke
   had fallen. But the people knew it by his silence, that he had seen a
   vision in the Temple. Yet as he stood helpless, trying by signs to
   indicate it to the awestruck assembly, he remained dumb.

   Wondering, they had dispersed - people and priests. The day's service
   over, another family of ministrants took the place of those among whom
   Zacharias had been; and again, at the close of the week's service,
   another course' that of Abia. They returned to their homes - some to
   Ophel, some to Jericho, some to their quiet dwellings in the country.
   But God fulfilled the word which He had spoken by His Angel.

   Before leaving this subject, it may be well to inquire into the
   relation between the events just described, and the customs and
   expectations of the time. The scene in the Temple, and all the
   surroundings, are in strictest accordance with what we know of the
   services of the Sanctuary. In a narrative that lays hold on some
   details of a very complex service, such entire accuracy conveys the
   impression of general truthfulness. Similarly, the sketch of Zacharias
   and Elisabeth is true to the history of the time - though Zacharias
   could not have been one of the learned,' nor to the Rabbinists, a model
   priest. They would have described him as an idiot,' [659] or common,
   and as an Amha-arets, a rustic' priest, and treated him with benevolent
   contempt. [660] The Angelic apparition, which he saw, was wholly
   unprecedented, and could therefore not have lain within range of common
   expectation; though the possibility, or rather the fear, of some
   contact with the Divine was always present to the popular mind. But it
   is difficult to conceive how, if not true, the invention of such a
   vision in such circumstances could have suggested itself. This
   difficulty is enhanced by the obvious difference between the Evangelic
   narrative, and the popular ideas of the time. Far too much importance
   has here been attached by a certain class of writers to a Rabbinic
   saying, [661] that the names of the Angels were brought from Babylon.
   For, not only was this saying (of Ben Lakish) only a clever Scriptural
   deduction (as the context shows), and not even an actual tradition, but
   no competent critic would venture to lay down the principle, that
   isolated Rabbinic sayings in the Talmud are to be regarded as
   sufficient foundation for historical facts. On the other hand, Rabbinic
   tradition does lay it down, that the names of the Angels were derived
   from their mission, and might be changed with it. Thus the reply of the
   Angel to the inquiry of Manoah [662] is explained as implying, that he
   knew not what other name might be given him in the future. In the Book
   of Daniel, to which the son of Lakish refers, the only two Angelic
   names mentioned are Gabriel [663] and Michael, [664] while the appeal
   to the Book of Daniel, as evidence of the Babylonish origin of Jewish
   Angelology, comes with strange inconsistency from writers who date it
   in Maccabean times. [665] But the question of Angelic nomenclature is
   quite secondary. The real point at issue is, whether or not the
   Angelology and Demonology of the New Testament was derived from
   contemporary Judaism. The opinion, that such was the case, has been so
   dogmatically asserted, as to have almost passed among a certain class
   as a settled fact. That nevertheless such was not the case, is capable
   of the most ample proof. Here also, with similarity of form, slighter
   than usually, there is absolutely contrast of substance. [666]

   Admitting that the names of Gabriel and Michael must have been familiar
   to the mind of Zacharias, some not unimportant differences must be kept
   in view. Thus, Gabriel was regarded in tradition as inferior to
   Michael; and, though both were connected with Israel, Gabriel was
   represented as chiefly the minister of justice, and Michael of mercy;
   while, thirdly, Gabriel was supposed to stand on the left, and not (as
   in the Evangelic narrative) on the right, side of the throne of glory.
   Small as these divergences may seem, they are all important, when
   derivation of one set of opinions from another is in question. Finally,
   as regarded the coming of Elijah as forerunner of the Messiah, it is to
   be observed that, according to Jewish notions, he was to appear
   personally, and not merely in spirit and power.' In fact, tradition
   represents his ministry and appearances as almost continuous - not only
   immediately before the coming of Messiah, but at all times. Rabbinic
   writings introduce him on the scene, not only frequently, but on the
   most incongruous occasions, and for the most diverse purposes. In this
   sense it is said of him, that he always liveth. [667] Sometimes,
   indeed, he is blamed, as for the closing words in his prayer about the
   turning of the heart of the people, [668] and even his sacrifice on
   Carmel was only excused on the ground of express command. [669] But his
   great activity as precursor of the Messiah is to resolve doubts of all
   kinds; to reintroduce those who had been violently and improperly
   extruded from the congregation of Israel, and vice-versa; to make
   peace; while, finally, he was connected with the raising of the dead.
   [670] [671] But nowhere is he prominently designated as intended to
   make ready for the Lord a people prepared.' [672]

   Thus, from whatever source the narrative may be supposed to have been
   derived, its details certainly differ, in almost all particulars, from
   the theological notions current at the time. And the more Zacharias
   meditated on this in the long solitude of his enforced silence, the
   more fully must new spiritual thoughts have come to him. As for
   Elisabeth, those tender feelings of woman, which ever shrink from the
   disclosure of the dearest secret of motherhood, were intensely deepened
   and sanctified in the knowledge of all that had passed. Little as she
   might understand the full meaning of the future, it must have been to
   her, as if she also now stood in the Holy Place, gazing towards the
   Veil which concealed the innermost Presence. Meantime she was content
   with, nay, felt the need of, absolute retirement from other fellowship
   than that of God and her own heart. Like her husband, she too would be
   silent and alone - till another voice called her forth. Whatever the
   future might bring, sufficient for the present, that thus the Lord had
   done to her, in days in which He looked down to remove her reproach
   among men. The removal of that burden, its manner, its meaning, its
   end, were all from God, and with God; and it was fitting to be quite
   alone and silent, till God's voice would again wake the echoes within.
   And so five months passed in absolute retirement.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [623] We presume, that the ministration of Zacharias (St. Luke i. 9)
   took place in the morning, as the principal service. But Meyer (Komm.
   i. 2, p. 242) is mistaken in supposing, that this follows from the
   reference to the lot. It is, indeed, true that, of the four lots for
   the priestly functions, three took place only in the morning. But that
   for incensing was repeated in the evening (Yoma 26 a). Even Bishop
   Haneberg (Die Relig. Alterth. p. 609) is not accurate in this respect.

   [624] For a description of the details of that service, see The Temple
   and its Services,' &c.

   [625] Tamid i. 2.

   [626] If we reckon the total number in the twenty-four courses of,
   presumably, the officiating priesthood, at 20,000, according to
   Josephus (Ag. Ap. ii. 8), which is very much below the exaggerated
   Talmudic computation of 85,000 for the smallest course (Jer. Taan. 69
   a), and suppose, that little more than one-third of each course had
   come up for duty, this would give fifty priests for each week-day,
   while on the Sabbath the whole course would be on duty. This is, of
   course, considerably more than the number requisite, since, except for
   the incensing priest, the lot for the morning also held good for the
   evening sacrifice.

   [627] Yoma 25 a.

   [628] Tamid v. 2.

   [629] Yoma 26 a. The designation rich' is derived from the promise
   which, in Deut. xxxiii. 11, follows on the service referred to in verse
   10. But probably a spiritual application was also intended.

   [630] The so-called Shema, consisting of Deut. vi. 4-9; xi. 13-21; Num.
   xv. 37-41.

   [631] The question of this date is, of course, intimately connected
   with that of the Nativity of Christ, and could therefore not be treated
   in the text. It is discussed in Appendix VII.: On the Date of the
   Nativity of our Lord.'

   [632] This was the eighth course in the original arrangement (1 Chr.
   xxiv. 10).

   [633] According to St. Luke i. 7, they were both well stricken in
   years.' But from Aboth v. 21 we learn, that sixty years was considered
   the commencement of agedness.'

   [634] According to tradition, about one-fourth of the priesthood was
   resident in Jericho. But, even limiting this to those who were in the
   habit of officiating, the statement seems greatly exaggerated.

   [635] Comp. Ber. 44 a; Pes. 49 a; Vayyikra R. 4.

   [636] dkaios - of  course not in the strict sense in which the word is
   sometimes used, especially by St. Paul, but as pius et bonus. See
   Vorstius (De Hebraism. N.T. pp. 55 &c.). As the account of the
   Evangelist seems derived from an original Hebrew source, the word must
   have corresponded to that of Tsaddiq in the then popular signification.

   [637] dkaios - of  course not in the strict sense in which the word is
   sometimes used, especially by St. Paul, but as pius et bonus. See
   Vorstius (De Hebraism. N.T. pp. 55 &c.). As the account of the
   Evangelist seems derived from an original Hebrew source, the word must
   have corresponded to that of Tsaddiq in the then popular signification.

   [638] ntola and dikaimata evidently mark an essential division of the
   Law at the time. But it is almost impossible to determine their exact
   Hebrew equivalents. The LXX. render by these two terms not always the
   same Hebrew words. Comp. Gen. xxvi. 5 with Deut. iv. 40. They cannot
   refer to the division of the law into affirmative (248) and prohibitive
   (365) commandments.

   [639] There is, perhaps, no point on which the Rabbinic Law is more
   explicit or stringent than on that of tenderest regard for the feelings
   of others, especially of the poor.

   [640] Mal. ii. 13-16.

   [641] Gitt. 90 b.

   [642] Yeb. 64 a.

   [643] For the prayers offered by the people during the incensing, see
   The Temple,' pp. 139, 140.

   [644] Rev. v. 8; viii. 1, 3, 4.

   [645] Tamid vi. 3.

   [646] The following extract from Yalkut (vol. i. p. 113 d, close)
   affords a curious illustration of this Divine communication from beside
   the altar of incense: From what place did the Shekhinah speak to Moses?
   R. Nathan said: From the altar of incense, according to Ex. xxx. 6.
   Simeon ben Asai said: From the side of the altar of incense.'

   [647] Ber. 7 a.

   [648] According to the Talmud, Ishmael once went into the innermost
   Sanctuary, when he had a vision of God, Who called upon the priest to
   pronounce a benediction. The token of God's acceptance had better not
   be quoted.

   [649] Jer. Yoma 42 c.

   [650] Instances of an analogous kind frequently occur in the Apocryphal
   Gospels.

   [651] On the different classes of Nazarites, see The Temple, &c.,' pp.
   322-331.

   [652] Mal. iii. 1.

   [653] 1 Kings xviii. 37.

   [654] Mal. iv. 5, 6.

   [655] St. Luke i. 17; comp. St. Matt. xi. 19.

   [656] Gen. xvii. 17, 18.

   [657] Judg. xiii 2-21.

   [658] Numb. vi. 24-26.

   [659] The word {hebrew} or idiot,' when conjoined with priest'
   ordinarily means a common priest, in distinction to the High priest.
   But the word unquestionably also signifies vulgar, ignorant, and
   illiterate. See Jer. Sot. 21 b, line 3 from bottom; Sanh. 21 b. Comp.
   also Meg. 12 b; Ber. R. 96.

   [660] According to Sanh. 90 b, such an one was not even allowed to get
   the Terumah.

   [661] Jer. haSh. 56 d, line 10 from bottom.

   [662] Judg. xiii. 18.

   [663] Dan. ix. 21.

   [664] x. 21.

   [665] Two other Angels are mentioned, but not named, in Dan. x. 13, 20.

   [666] The Jewish ideas and teaching about angels are fully given in
   Appendix XIII.: Jewish Angelology and Demonology.'

   [667] Moed k. 26 a.

   [668] 1 Kings xviii. 37 (in Hebr. without that' and again'); see Ber.
   31 b, last two lines.

   [669] Bemidbar R. 14. Another view in Par. 13.

   [670] This in Shir haSh R. i. ed. Warshau, p. 3 a.

   [671] All the Rabbinic traditions about Elijah as the Forerunner of the
   Messiah' are collated in Appendix VIII.

   [672] I should, however, remark, that that very curious chapter on
   Repentance, in the Pirké de R. Elieser (c. 43), closes with these
   words: And Israel will not make great repentance till Elijah - his
   memory for blessing! - come, as it is said, Mal. iv. 6,' &c. From this
   isolated and enigmatic sentence, Professor Delitzsch's implied
   inference (Zeitschr. fur Luther. Theol. 1875, p. 593) seems too
   sweeping.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER IV.
THE ANNUNCIATION OF JESUS THE MESSIAH, AND THE BIRTH OF HIS FORERUNNER.

   (St. Matt. i.; St. Luke i. 26-80.)

   FROM the Temple to Nazareth! It seems indeed most fitting that the
   Evangelic story should have taken its beginning within the Sanctuary,
   and at the time of sacrifice. Despite its outward veneration for them,
   the Temple, its services, and specially its sacrifices, were, by an
   inward logical necessity, fast becoming a superfluity for Rabbinism.
   But the new development, passing over the intruded elements, which
   were, after all, of rationalistic origin, connected its beginning
   directly with the Old Testament dispensation - its sacrifices,
   priesthood, and promises. In the Sanctuary, in connection with
   sacrifice, and through the priesthood - such was significantly the
   beginning of the era of fulfillment. And so the great religious
   reformation of Israel under Samuel had also begun in the Tabernacle,
   which had so long been in the background. But if, even in this
   Temple-beginning, and in the communication to, and selection of an
   idiot priest,' there was marked divergence from the Rabbinic ideal,
   that difference widens into the sharpest contrast, as we pass from the
   Forerunner to the Messiah, from the Temple to Galilee, from the idiot'
   priest to the humble, unlettered family of Nazareth. It is necessary
   here to recall our general impression of Rabbinism: its conception of
   God, [673] and of the highest good and ultimate object of all things,
   as concentrated in learned study, pursued in Academies; and then to
   think of the unmitigated contempt with which they were wont to speak of
   Galilee, and of the Galileans, whose very patois was an offence; of the
   utter abhorrence with which they regarded the unlettered
   country-people, in order to realise, how such an household as that of
   Joseph and Mary would be regarded by the leaders of Israel. A Messianic
   announcement, not the result of learned investigation, nor connected
   with the Academies, but in the Sanctuary, to a rustic' priest; an
   Elijah unable to untie the intellectual or ecclesiastical knots, of
   whose mission, indeed, this formed no part at all; and a Messiah, the
   offspring of a Virgin in Galilee betrothed to a humble workman -
   assuredly, such a picture of the fulfillment of Israel's hope could
   never have been conceived by contemporary Judaism. There was in such a
   Messiah absolutely nothing - past, present, or possible;
   intellectually, religiously, or even nationally - to attract, but all
   to repel. And so we can, at the very outset of this history, understand
   the infinite contrast which it embodied - with all the difficulties to
   its reception, even to those who became disciples, as at almost every
   step of its progress they were, with ever fresh surprise, recalled from
   all that they had formerly thought, to that which was so entirely new
   and strange.

   And yet, just as Zacharias may be described as the representative of
   the good and the true in the Priesthood at that time, so the family of
   Nazareth as a typical Israelitish household. We feel, that the
   scantiness of particulars here supplied by the Gospels, was intended to
   prevent the human interest from overshadowing the grand central Fact,
   to which alone attention was to be directed. For, the design of the
   Gospels was manifestly not to furnish a biography of Jesus the Messiah,
   [674] but, in organic connection with the Old Testament, to tell the
   history of the long-promised establishment of the Kingdom of God upon
   earth. Yet what scanty details we possess of the Holy Family' and its
   surroundings may here find a place.

   The highlands which form the central portion of Palestine are broken by
   the wide, rich plain of Jezreel, which severs Gailee from the rest of
   the land. This was always the great battle-field of Israel.
   Appropriately, it is shut in as between mountain-walls. That along the
   north of the plain is formed by the mountains of Lower Galilee, cleft
   about the middle by a valley that widens, till, after an hour's
   journey, we stand within an enclosure which seems almost one of
   Nature's own sanctuaries. As in an amphitheatre, fifteen hill-tops rise
   around. That to the west is the highest - about 500 feet. On its lower
   slopes nestles a little town, its narrow streets ranged like terraces.
   This is Nazareth, probably the ancient Sarid (or En-Sarid), which, in
   the time of Joshua, marked the northern boundary of Zebulun. [675]
   [676]

   Climbing this steep hill, fragrant with aromatic plants, and bright
   with rich-coloured flowers, a view almost unsurpassed opens before us.
   For, the Galilee of the time of Jesus was not only of the richest
   fertility, cultivated to the utmost, and thickly covered with populous
   towns and villages, but the centre of every known industry, and the
   busy road of the world's commerce. Northward the eye would sweep over a
   rich plain; rest here and there on white towns, glittering in the
   sunlight; then quickly travel over the romantic hills and glens which
   form the scenes of Solomon's Song, till, passing beyond Safed (the
   Tsephath of the Rabbis - the city set on a hill'), the view is bounded
   by that giant of the far-off mountain-chain, snow-tipped Hermon.
   Westward stretched a like scene of beauty and wealth - a land not
   lonely, but wedded; not desolate, but teeming with life; while, on the
   edge of the horizon, lay purple Carmel; beyond it a fringe of silver
   sand, and then the dazzling sheen of the Great Sea. In the farthest
   distance, white sails, like wings outspread towards the ends of the
   world; nearer, busy ports; then, centres of industry; and close by,
   travelled roads, all bright in the pure Eastern air and rich glow of
   the sun. But if you turned eastwards, the eye would soon be arrested by
   the wooded height of Tabor, yet not before attention had been riveted
   by the long, narrow string of fantastic caravans, and curiosity roused
   by the motley figures, of all nationalities and in all costumes, busy
   binding the East to the West by that line of commerce that passed along
   the route winding around Tabor. And when, weary with the gaze, you
   looked once more down on little Nazareth nestling on the breast of the
   mountain, the eye would rest on a scene of tranquil, homely beauty.
   Just outside the town, in the north-west, bubbled the spring or well,
   the trysting-spot of townspeople, and welcome resting-place of
   travellers. Beyond it stretched lines of houses, each with its flat
   roof standing out distinctly against the clear sky; watered, terraced
   gardens, gnarled wide-spreading figtrees, graceful feathery palms,
   scented oranges, silvery olive-trees, thick hedges, rich pasture-land,
   then the bounding hills to the south; and beyond, the seemingly
   unbounded expanse of the wide plain of Esdraelon!

   And yet, withdrawn from the world as, in its enclosure of mountains,
   Nazareth might seem, we must not think of it as a lonely village which
   only faint echoes reached of what roused the land beyond. With
   reverence be it said: such a place might have suited the training of
   the contemplative hermit, not the upbringing of Him Whose sympathies
   were to be with every clime and race. Nor would such an abode have
   furnished what (with all due acknowledgment of the supernatural) we
   mark as a constant, because a rationally necessary, element in
   Scripture history: that of inward preparedness in which the higher and
   the Divine afterwards find their ready points of contact.

   Nor was it otherwise in Nazareth. The two great interests which stirred
   the land, the two great factors in the religious future of Israel,
   constantly met in the retirement of Nazareth. The great caravan-route
   which led from Acco on the sea to Damascus divided at its commencement
   into three roads: the most northern passing through Cæsarea Philippi;
   the Upper Galilean; and the Lower Galilean. The latter, the ancient Via
   Maris led through Nazareth, and thence either by Cana, or else along
   the northern shoulder of Mount Tabor, to the Lake of Gennesaret - each
   of these roads soon uniting with the Upper Galilean. [677] Hence,
   although the stream of commerce between Acco and the East was divided
   into three channels, yet, as one of these passed through Nazareth, the
   quiet little town was not a stagnant pool of rustic seclusion. Men of
   all nations, busy with another life than that of Israel, would appear
   in the streets of Nazareth; and through them thoughts, associations,
   and hopes connected with the great outside world be stirred. But, on
   the other hand, Nazareth was also one of the great centers of Jewish
   Temple-life. It has already been indicated that the Priesthood was
   divided into twenty-four courses,' which, in turn, ministered in the
   Temple. The Priests of the course' which was to be on duty always
   gathered in certain towns, whence they went up in company to Jerusalem,
   while those of their number who were unable to go spent the week in
   fasting and prayer. Now Nazareth was one of these Priest-centres, [678]
   and although it may well have been, that comparatively few in distant
   Galilee conformed to the Priestly regulations - some must have
   assembled there in preparation for the sacred functions, or appeared in
   its Synagogue. Even the fact, so well known to all, of this living
   connection between Nazareth and the Temple, must have wakened peculiar
   feelings. Thus, to take the wider view, a double symbolic significance
   attached to Nazareth, since through it passed alike those who carried
   on the traffic of the world, and those who ministered in the Temple.
   [679]

   We may take it, that the people of Nazareth were like those of other
   little towns similarly circumstanced: [680] with all the peculiarities
   of the impulsive, straight-spoken, hot-blooded, brave, intensely
   national Galileans; [681] with the deeper feelings and almost
   instinctive habits of thought and life, which were the outcome of long
   centuries of Old Testament training; but also with the petty interest
   and jealousies of such places, and with all the ceremonialism and
   punctilious self-assertion of Orientals. The cast of Judaism prevalent
   in Nazareth would, of course, be the same as in Galilee generally. We
   know, that there were marked divergences from the observances in that
   stronghold of Rabbinism, [682] Judæa - indicating greater simplicity
   and freedom from the constant intrusion of traditional ordinances. The
   home-life would be all the purer, that the veil of wedded life was not
   so coarsely lifted as in Judæa, nor its sacred secrecy interfered with
   by an Argus-eyed legislation. [683] The purity of betrothal in Galilee
   was less likely to be sullied, [684] and weddings were more simple than
   in Judæa - without the dubious institution of groomsmen, [685] [686] or
   friends of the bridegroom' [687] whose office must not unfrequently
   have degenerated into utter coarseness. The bride was chosen, not as in
   Judæa, where money was too often the motive, but as in Jerusalem, with
   chief regard to a fair degree;' and widows were (as in Jerusalem) more
   tenderly cared for, as we gather even from the fact, that they had a
   life-right of residence in their husband's house.

   Such a home was that to which Joseph was about to bring the maiden, to
   whom he had been betrothed. Whatever view may be taken of the
   genealogies in the Gospels according to St. Matthew and St. Luke -
   whether they be regarded as those of Joseph and of Mary, [688] or,
   which seems the more likely, [689] as those of Joseph only, marking his
   natural and his legal descent [690] from David, or vice versâ [691] -
   there can be no question, that both Joseph and Mary were of the royal
   lineage of David. [692] Most probably the two were nearly related,
   [693] while Mary could also claim kinship with the Priesthood, being,
   no doubt on her mother's side, a blood-relative' of Elisabeth, the
   Priest-wife of Zacharias. [694] [695] Even this seems to imply, that
   Mary's family must shortly before have held higher rank, for only with
   such did custom sanction any alliance on the part of Priests. [696] But
   at the time of their betrothal, alike Joseph and Mary were extremely
   poor, as appears - not indeed from his being a carpenter, since a trade
   was regarded as almost a religious duty - but from the offering at the
   presentation of Jesus in the Temple. [697] Accordingly, their betrothal
   must have been of the simplest, and the dowry settled the smallest
   possible. [698] Whichever of the two modes of betrothal [699] may have
   been adopted: in the presence of witnesses - either by solemn word of
   mouth, in due prescribed formality, with the added pledge of a piece of
   money, however small, or of money's worth for use; or else by writing
   (the so-called Shitre Erusin) - there would be no sumptuous feast to
   follow; and the ceremony would conclude with some such benediction as
   that afterwards in use: Blessed art Thou, O Lord our God, King of the
   World, Who hath sanctified us by His Commandments, and enjoined us
   about incest, and forbidden the betrothed, but allowed us those wedded
   by Chuppah (the marriage-baldachino) and betrothal. Blessed art Thou,
   Who sanctifiest Israel by Chuppah and betrothal' - the whole being
   perhaps concluded by a benediction over the statutory cup of wine,
   which was tasted in turn by the betrothed. From that moment Mary was
   the betrothed wife of Joseph; their relationship as sacred, as if they
   had already been wedded. Any breach of it would be treated as adultery;
   nor could the band be dissolved except, as after marriage, by regular
   divorce. Yet months might intervene between the betrothal and marriage.
   [700]

   Five months of Elisabeth's sacred retirement had passed, when a strange
   messenger brought its first tidings to her kinswoman in far-off
   Galilee. It was not in the solemn grandeur of the Temple, between the
   golden altar of incense and the seven-branched candlesticks that the
   Angel Gabriel now appeared, but in the privacy of a humble home at
   Nazareth. The greatest honor bestowed on man was to come amidst
   circumstances of deepest human lowliness, as if the more clearly to
   mark the exclusively Divine character of what was to happen. And,
   although the awe of the Supernatural must unconsciously have fallen
   upon her, it was not so much the sudden appearance of the mysterious
   stranger in her retirement that startled the maiden, as the words of
   his greeting, implying unthought blessing. The Peace to thee' [701]
   was, indeed, the well-known salutation, while the words, The Lord is
   with thee' might waken the remembrance of the Angelic call, to great
   deliverance in the past. [702] But this designation of highly favored'
   [703] came upon her with bewildering surprise, perhaps not so much from
   its contrast to the humbleness of her estate, as from the
   self-conscious humility of her heart. And it was intended so, for of
   all feelings this would now most become her. Accordingly, it is this
   story of special favour' or grace, which the Angel traces in rapid
   outline, from the conception of the Virgin-Mother to the distinctive,
   Divinely-given Name, symbolic of the meaning of His coming; His
   absolute greatness; His acknowledgment as the Son of God; and the
   fulfillment in Him of the great Davidic hope, with its never-ceasing
   royalty, [704] and its never-ending, boundless Kingdom. [705]

   In all this, however marvellous, there could be nothing strange to
   those who cherished in their hearts Israel's great hope, not merely as
   an article of abstract belief, but as matter of certain fact - least of
   all to the maiden of the lineage of David, betrothed to him of the
   house and lineage of David. So long as the hand of prophetic blessing
   rested on the house of David, and before its finger had pointed to the
   individual who found favor' in the highest sense, the consciousness of
   possibilities, which scarce dared shape themselves into definite
   thoughts, must at times have stirred nameless feelings - perhaps the
   more often in circumstances of outward depression and humility, such as
   those of the Holy Family.' Nor was there anything strange even in the
   naming of the yet unconceived Child. It sounds like a saying current
   among the people of old, this of the Rabbis, [706] concerning the six
   whose names were given before their birth: Isaac, Ishmael, Moses,
   Solomon, Josiah, and the Name of the Messiah, Whom may the Holy One,
   blessed be His Name, bring quickly in our days!' [707] But as for the
   deeper meaning of the name Jesus, [708] which, like an unopened bud,
   enclosed the flower of His Passion, that was mercifully yet the
   unthought-of secret of that sword, which should pierce the soul of the
   Virgin-Mother, and which only His future history would lay open to her
   and to others.

   Thus, on the supposition of the readiness of her believing heart, and
   her entire self-unconsciousness, it would have been only the glorious
   announcement of the impending event, which would absorb her thinking -
   with nothing strange about it, or that needed further light, than the
   how of her own connection with it. [709] And the words, which she
   spake, were not of trembling doubt, that required to lean on the staff
   of a sign,' but rather those of enquiry, for the further guidance of a
   willing self-surrender. The Angel had pointed her opened eyes to the
   shining path: that was not strange; only, that She should walk in it,
   seemed so. And now the Angel still further unfolded it in words which,
   however little she may have understood their full meaning, had again
   nothing strange about them, save once more that she should be thus
   favoured;' words which, even to her understanding, must have carried
   yet further thoughts of Divine favour, and so deepened her humility.
   For, the idea of the activity of the Holy Ghost in all great events was
   quite familiar to Israel at the time, [710] even though the
   Individuation of the Holy Ghost may not have been fully apprehended.
   Only, that they expected such influences to rest exclusively upon those
   who were either mighty, or rich, or wise. [711] And of this twofold
   manifestation of miraculous favour' - that she, and as a Virgin, should
   be its subject - Gabriel, the might of God,' gave this unasked sign, in
   what had happened to her kinswoman Elisabeth.

   The sign was at the same time a direction. The first, but also the
   ever-deepening desire in the heart of Mary, when the Angel left her,
   must have been to be away from Nazareth, and for the relief of opening
   her heart to a woman, in all things like-minded, who perhaps might
   speak blessed words to her. And to such an one the Angel himself seemed
   to have directed her. It is only what we would have expected, that with
   haste' she should have resorted to her kinswoman, without loss of time,
   and before she would speak to her betrothed of what even in wedded life
   is the first secret whispered. [712]

   It could have been no ordinary welcome that would greet the
   Virgin-Mother, on entering the house of her kinswoman. Elisabeth must
   have learnt from her husband the destiny of their son, and hence the
   near Advent of the Messiah. But she could not have known either when,
   or of whom He would be born. When, by a sign not quite strange to
   Jewish expectancy, [713] she recognised in her near kinswoman the
   Mother of her Lord, her salutation was that of a mother to a mother -
   the mother of the preparer' to the mother of Him for Whom he would
   prepare. To be more precise: the words which, filled with the Holy
   Ghost, she spake, were the mother's utterance, to the mother, of the
   homage which her unborn babe offered to his Lord; while the answering
   hymn of Mary was the offering of that homage unto God. It was the
   antiphonal morning-psalmody of the Messianic day as it broke, of which
   the words were still all of the old dispensation, [714] but their music
   of the new; the keynote being that of favour,' grace,' struck by the
   Angel in his first salutation: favour' to the Virgin; [715] favour,'
   eternal favour' to all His humble and poor ones; [716] and favour' to
   Israel, stretching in golden line from the calling of Abraham to the
   glorious future that now opened. [717] Not one of these fundamental
   ideas but lay strictly within the range of the Old Testament; and yet
   all of them now lay beyond it, bathed in the golden light of the new
   day. Miraculous it all is, and professes to be; not indeed in the
   connection of these events, which succeed each other with psychological
   truthfulness; nor yet in their language, which is of the times and the
   circumstances; but in the underlying facts. [718] And for these there
   can be no other evidence than the Life, the Death, and the Resurrection
   of Jesus the Messiah. If He was such, and if He really rose from the
   dead, then, with all soberness and solemnity, such inception of His
   appearance seems almost a logical necessity. But of this whole
   narrative it may be said, that such inception of the Messianic
   appearance, such announcement of it, and such manner of His Coming,
   could never have been invented by contemporary Judaism; indeed, ran
   directly counter to all its preconceptions. [719]

   Three months had passed since the Virgin-Mother entered the home of her
   kinswoman. And now she must return to Nazareth. Soon Elisabeth's
   neighbours and kinsfolk would gather with sympathetic joy around a home
   which, as they thought, had experienced unexpected mercy - little
   thinking, how wide-reaching its consequences would be. But the
   Virgin-Mother must not be exposed to the publicity of such meetings.
   However conscious of what had led to her condition, it must have been
   as the first sharp pang of the sword which was to pierce her soul, when
   she told it all to her betrothed. For, however deep his trust in her
   whom he had chosen for wife, only a direct Divine communication could
   have chased all questioning from his heart, and given him that
   assurance, which was needful in the future history of the Messiah.
   Brief as, with exquisite delicacy, the narrative is, we can read in the
   thoughts' of Joseph the anxious contending of feelings, the scarcely
   established, and yet delayed, resolve to put her away,' which could
   only be done by regular divorce; this one determination only standing
   out clearly, that, if it must be, her letter of divorce shall be handed
   to her privately, only in the presence of two witnesses. The humble
   Tsaddiq of Nazareth would not willingly have brought the blush to any
   face, least of all would he make of her a public exhibition of shame.'
   [720] It was a relief that he could legally divorce her either publicly
   or privately, whether from change of feeling, or because he had found
   just cause for it, but hesitated to make it known, either from regard
   for his own character, or because he had not sufficient legal evidence
   [721] of the charge. He would follow, all unconscious of it, the truer
   manly feeling of R. Eliezar, [722] R. Jochanan, and R. Zera, [723]
   according to which a man would not like to put his wife to shame before
   a Court of Justice, rather than the opposite sentence of R. Meir.

   The assurance, which Joseph could scarcely dare to hope for, was
   miraculously conveyed to him in a dream-vision. All would now be clear;
   even the terms in which he was addressed (thou son of David'), so
   utterly unusual in ordinary circumstances, would prepare him for the
   Angel's message. The naming of the unborn Messiah would accord with
   popular notions; [724] the symbolism of such a name was deeply rooted
   in Jewish belief; [725] while the explanation of Jehoshua or Jeshua
   (Jesus), as He who would save His people (primarily, as he would
   understand it, Israel) from their sins, described at least one
   generally expected aspect of His Mission, [726] although Joseph may not
   have known that it was the basis of all the rest. And perhaps it was
   not without deeper meaning and insight into His character, that the
   Angel laid stress on this very element in His communication to Joseph,
   and not to Mary.

   The fact that such an announcement came to Him in a dream, would
   dispose Joseph all the more readily to receive it. A good dream' was
   one of the three things [727] popularly regarded as marks of God's
   favour; and so general was the belief in their significance, as to have
   passed into this popular saying: If any one sleeps seven days without
   dreaming (or rather, remembering his dream for interpretation), call
   him wicked' (as being unremembered of God [728] [729] ). Thus Divinely
   set at rest, Joseph could no longer hesitate. The highest duty towards
   the Virgin-Mother and the unborn Jesus demanded an immediate marriage,
   which would afford not only outward, but moral protection to both.
   [730]

   Viewing events, not as isolated, but as links welded in the golden
   chain of the history of the Kingdom of God, all this' - not only the
   birth of Jesus from a Virgin, nor even His symbolic Name with its
   import, but also the unrestful questioning of Joseph, - happened' [731]
   in fulfilment [732] of what had been prefigured. [733] The promise of a
   Virginborn son as a sign of the firmness of God's covenant of old with
   David and his house; the now unfolded meaning of the former symbolic
   name Immanuel; even the unbelief of Ahaz, with its counterpart in the
   questioning of Joseph - all this' could now be clearly read in the
   light of the breaking day. Never had the house of David sunk morally
   lower than when, in the words of Ahaz, it seemed to renounce the very
   foundation of its claim to continuance; never had the fortunes of the
   house of David fallen lower, than when a Herod sat on its throne, and
   its lineal representative was a humble village carpenter, from whose
   heart doubts of the Virgin-Mother had to be Divinely chased. And never,
   not even when God gave to the doubts of Moses this as the sign of
   Israel's future deliverance, that in that mountain they should worship
   [734] - had unbelief been answered by more strange evidence. But as,
   nevertheless, the stability of the Davidic house was ensured by the
   future advent of Immanuel - and with such certainty, that before even
   such a child could discern between choice of good and evil, the land
   would be freed of its dangers; so now all that was then prefigured was
   to become literally true, and Israel to be saved from its real danger
   by the Advent of Jesus, Immanuel. [735] And so it had all been
   intended. The golden cup of prophecy which Isaiah had placed empty on
   the Holy Table, waiting for the time of the end, was now full filled,
   up to its brim, with the new wine of the Kingdom.

   Meanwhile the long-looked-for event had taken place in the home of
   Zacharias. No domestic solemnity so important or so joyous as that in
   which, by circumcision, the child had, as it were, laid upon it the
   yoke of the Law, with all of duty and privilege which this implied.
   Even the circumstance, that it took place at early morning [736] might
   indicate this. It was, so tradition has it, as if the father had acted
   sacrificially as High-Priest, [737] offering his child to God in
   gratitude and love; [738] and it symbolised this deeper moral truth,
   that man must by his own act complete what God had first instituted.
   [739] To Zacharias and Elisabeth the rite would have even more than
   this significance, as administered to the child of their old age, so
   miraculously given, and who was connected with such a future. Besides,
   the legend which associates circumcision with Elijah, as the restorer
   of this rite in the apostate period of the Kings of Israel, [740] was
   probably in circulation at the time. [741] We can scarcely be mistaken
   in supposing, that then, as now, a benediction was spoken before
   circumcision, and that the ceremony closed with the usual grace over
   the cup of wine, [742] when the child received his name in a prayer
   that probably did not much differ from this at present in use: Our God,
   and the God of our fathers, raise up this child to his father and
   mother, and let his name be called in Israel Zacharias, the son of
   Zacharias. [743] Let his father rejoice in the issue of his loins, and
   his mother in the fruit of her womb, as it is written in Prov. xxiii.
   25, and as it is said in Ezek. xvi. 6, and again in Ps. cv. 8, and Gen.
   xxi. 4;' the passages being, of course, quoted in full. The prayer
   closed with the hope that the child might grow up, and successfully,
   attain to the Torah, the marriagebaldachino, and good works.' [744]

   Of all this Zacharias was, though a deeply interested, yet a deaf and
   dumb [745] witness. This only had he noticed, that, in the benediction
   in which the child's name was inserted, the mother had interrupted the
   prayer. Without explaining her reason, she insisted that his name
   should not be that of his aged father, as in the peculiar circumstances
   might have been expected, but John (Jochanan). A reference to the
   father only deepened the general astonishment, when he also gave the
   same name. But this was not the sole cause for marvel. For, forthwith
   the tongue of the dumb was loosed, and he, who could not utter the name
   of the child, now burst into praise of the name of the Lord. His last
   words had been those of unbelief, his first were those of praise; his
   last words had been a question of doubt, his first were a hymn of
   assurance. Strictly Hebrew in its cast, and closely following Old
   Testament prophecy, it is remarkable - and yet almost natural - that
   this hymn of the Priest closely follows, and, if the expression be
   allowable, spiritualises a great part of the most ancient Jewish
   prayer: the so-called Eighteen Benedictions; rather perhaps, that it
   transforms the expectancy of that prayer into praise of its
   realisation. And if we bear in mind, that a great portion of these
   prayers was said by the Priests before the lot was cast for incensing,
   or by the people in the time of incesing, it almost seems as if, during
   the long period of his enforced solitude, the aged Priest had meditated
   on, and learned to understand, what so often he had repeated. Opening
   with the common form of benediction, his hymn struck, one by one, the
   deepest chords of that prayer, specially this the most significant of
   all (the fifteenth Eulogy), Speedily make to shoot forth the Branch
   [746] of David, Thy servant, and exalt Thou his horn by Thy salvation,
   for in Thy salvation we trust all the day long. Blessed art Thou,
   Jehovah! Who causeth to spring forth the Horn of Salvation' (literally,
   to branch forth). This analogy between the hymn of Zacharias and the
   prayers of Israel will best appear from the benedictions with which
   these eulogies closed. For, when thus examined, their leading thoughts
   will be found to be as follows: God as the Shield of Abraham; He that
   raises the dead, and causes salvation to shoot forth; the Holy One; Who
   graciously giveth knowledge; Who taketh pleasure in repentance; Who
   multiplieth forgiveness; Who redeemeth Israel; Who healeth their
   (spiritual) diseases; Who blesseth the years; Who gathereth the
   outcasts of His people; Who loveth righteousness and judgment; Who is
   the abode and stay of the righteous; Who buildeth Jerusalem; Who
   causeth the Horn of Salvation to shoot forth; Who heareth prayer; Who
   bringeth back His Shekhinah to Zion; God the Gracious One, to Whom
   praise is due; Who blesseth His people Israel with peace. [747]

   It was all most fitting. The question of unbelief had struck the Priest
   dumb, for most truly unbelief cannot speak; and the answer of faith
   restored to him speech, for most truly does faith loosen the tongue.
   The first evidence of his dumbness had been, that his tongue refused to
   speak the benediction to the people; and the first evidence of his
   restored power was, that he spoke the benediction of God in a rapturous
   burst of praise and thanksgiving. The sign of the unbeliving Priest
   standing before the awe-struck people, vainly essaying to make himself
   understood by signs, was most fitting; most fitting also that, when
   they made signs' to him, the believing father should burst in their
   hearing into a prophetic hymn.

   But far and wide, as these marvellous tidings spread throughout the
   hill-country of Judæa, fear fell on all - the fear also of a nameless
   hope. The silence of a long-clouded day had been broken, and the light
   which had suddenly riven its gloom, laid itself on their hearts in
   expectancy: What then shall this Child be? For the Hand of the Lord
   also was with Him!' [748]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [673] Terrible as it may sound, it is certainly the teaching of
   Rabbinism, that God occupied so many hours every day in the study of
   the Law. Comp. Targ. Ps.-Jonathan on Deut. xxxii. 4, and Abhod. Z. 3 b.
   Nay, Rabbinism goes farther in its daring, and speaks of the Almighty
   as arrayed in a white dress, or as occupying himself by day with the
   study of the Bible, and by night with that of the six tractates of the
   Mishnah. Comp. also the Targum on Cant. v. 10.

   [674] The object which the Evangelists had in view was certainly not
   that of biography, even as the Old Testament contains no biography. The
   twofold object of their narratives is indicated by St. Luke i. 4, and
   by St. John xx. 31.

   [675] Josh. xix. 10, 11.

   [676] The name Nazareth may best be regarded as the equivalent of
   {hebrew} watch' or watcheress.' The name does not occur in the Talmud,
   nor in those Midrashim which have been preserved. But the elegy of
   Eleazar ha Kallir - written before the close of the Talmud - in which
   Nazareth is mentioned as a Priestcentre, is based upon an ancient
   Midrash, now lost (comp. Neubauer, Geogr. du Talmud, p. 117, note 5).
   It is, however, possible, as Dr. Neubauer suggests (u.s. p. 190, note
   5), that the name {hebrew} in Midr. on Eccl. ii. 8 should read {hebrew}
   and refers to Nazareth.

   [677] Comp. the detailed description of these roads, and the references
   in Herzog's Real-Encykl. vol. xv. pp. 160, 161.

   [678] Comp. Neubauer, u. s. p. 190. See a detailed account in sketches
   of Jewish Social Life,' &c. p. 36.

   [679] It is strange, that these two circumstances have not been
   noticed. Keim (Jesu von Nazari i. 2, pp. 322, 323) only cursorily
   refers to the great road which passed through Nazareth.

   [680] The inference, that the expression of Nathanael (St. John i. 46)
   implies a lower state of the people of Nazareth, is unfounded. Even
   Keim points out, that it only marks disbelief that the Messiah would
   come from such a place.

   [681] Our description of them is derived from notices by Josephus (such
   as War iii. 3, 2), and many passages in the Talmud.

   [682] These differences are marked in Pes. iv. 5; Keth. iv. 12; Ned.
   ii. 4; Chull. 62 a; Baba K. 80 a; Keth. 12 a.

   [683] The reader who wishes to understand what we have only ventured to
   hint, is referred to the Mishnic tractate Niddah.

   [684] Keth. 12 a.

   [685] Keth. 12 a, and often.

   [686] Comp. Sketches of Jewish Social Life,' &c., pp. 152 &c.

   [687] St. John iii. 29

   [688] The best defence of this view is that by Wieseler, Beitr. zur
   Wurdig. d. Evang. pp. 133 &c. It is also virtually adopted by Weiss
   (Leben Jesu, vol. i. 1882).

   [689] This view is adopted almost unanimously by modern writers.

   [690] This view is defended with much skill by Mr. McClellan in his New
   Testament, vol. i. pp. 409-422.

   [691] So Grotius, Bishop Lord Arthur Hervey, and after him most modern
   English writers.

   [692] The Davidic descent of the Virgin-Mother - which is questioned by
   some even among orthodox interpreters - seems implied in the Gospel
   (St. Luke i. 27, 32, 69; ii. 4), and an almost necessary inference from
   such passages as Rom. i. 3; 2 Tim. ii. 8; Hebr. vii. 14. The Davidic
   descent of Jesus is not only admitted, but elaborately proved - on
   purely rationalistic grounds - by Keim (u. s. pp. 327-329).

   [693] This is the general view of antiquity.

   [694] St. Luke i. 36.

   [695] Reference to this union of Levi and Judah in the Messiah is made
   in the Test. xii. Patriarch., Test. Simeonis vii. (apud Fabr. Cod.
   Pseudepigr. vol. ii. p. 542). Curiously, the great Hillel was also said
   by some to have descended, through his father and mother, from the
   tribes of Judah and Levi - all, however, asserting his Davidic origin
   (comp. Jer. Taan. iv. 2; Ber. R. 98 and 33).

   [696] Comp, Maimonides, Yad haChaz Hil. Sanh. ii. The inference would,
   of course, be the same, whether we suppose Mary's mother to have been
   the sister-in-law, or the sister, of Elisabeth's father.

   [697] St. Luke ii. 24.

   [698] Comp. Sketches of Jewish Social Life in the Days of Christ,' pp.
   143-149. Also the article on Marriage' in Cassell's Bible-Educator,
   vol. iv. pp. 267-270.

   [699] There was a third mode, by cohabitation; but this was highly
   disapproved of even by the Rabbis.

   [700] The assertion of Professor Wünsche (Neue Beitr. zur Erläuter. d.
   Evang. p. 7) that the practice of betrothal was confined exclusively,
   or almost so, to Judæa, is quite ungrounded. The passages to which he
   refers (Kethub. i. 5 - not 3 - and especially Keth. 12 a) are
   irrelevant. Keth. 12 a marks the simpler and purer customs of Galilee,
   but does not refer to betrothals.

   [701] I have rendered the Greek chare by the Hebrew {hebrew} and for
   the correctness of it refer the reader to Grimm's remarks on 1 Macc. x.
   18 (Exeget. Handb. zu d. Apokryph. 3^tte Lief. p. 149).

   [702] Judg. vi. 12.

   [703] Bengel aptly remarks, Non ut mater gratiae, sed ut filia
   gratiae.' Even Jeremy Taylor's remarks (Life of Christ, ed. Pickering,
   vol. i. p. 56) would here require modification. Following the best
   critical authorities, I have omitted the words, Blessed art thou among
   women.'

   [704] We here refer, as an interesting corroboration, to the Targum on
   Ps. xlv. 7 (6 in our A. V.). But this interest is intensely increased
   when we read it, not as in our editions of the Targum, but as found in
   a MS. copy of the year 1208 (given by Levy in his Targum. Wörterb. vol.
   i. p. 390 a). Translating it from that reading, the Targum thus renders
   Ps. xlv. 7, Thy throne, O God, in the heaven' (Levy renders, Thy throne
   from God in heaven,' but in either case it refers to the throne of the
   Messiah) is for ever and ever' (for world without end,' {hebrew} a rule
   of righteousness is the rule of Thy kingdom, O Thou King Messiah!'

   [705] In Pirqé de R. El. c. 11, the same boundless dominion is ascribed
   to Messiah the King. In that curious passage dominion is ascribed to
   ten kings,' the first being God, the ninth the Messiah, and the tenth
   again God, to Whom the kingdom would be delivered in the end, according
   to Is. xliv. 6; Zechar. xiv. 9; Ezek. xxxiv. 24, with the result
   described in Is. lii. 9.

   [706] Pirqé de R. El. 32, at the beginning.

   [707] Professor Wünsche's quotation is here not exact (u. s. p. 414).

   [708] St. Matt. i. 21.

   [709] Weiss (Leben Jesu, 1882, vol. i. p. 213) rightly calls attention
   to the humility of her self-surrender, when she willingly submitted to
   what her heart would feel hardest to bear - that of incurring suspicion
   of her purity in the sight of all, but especially in that of her
   betrothed.  The whole account, as we gather from St. Luke ii. 19, 51,
   must have been derived from the personal recollections of the
   Virgin-Mother.

   [710] So in almost innumerable Rabbinic passages.

   [711] Nedar. 38 a.

   [712] This is answer to the objection, so pertinaciously urged, of
   inconsistency with the narrative in St. Matt. i. 19 &c. It is clear,
   that Mary went with haste' to her kinswoman, and that any communication
   to Joseph could only have taken place after that, and after the Angelic
   prediction was in all its parts confirmed by her visit to Elisabeth.
   Jeremy Taylor (u. s. p. 64) has already arranged the narrative as in
   the text.

   [713] According to Jewish tradition, the yet unborn infants in their
   mother's wombs responded by an Amen to the hymn of praise at the Red
   Sea. This is supposed to be indicated by the words {hebrew}(Ps. lxviii.
   27; see also the Targum on that verse). Comp. Keth. 7 b and Sotah 30 b
   (last line) and 31 a, though the coarse legendary explanation of R.
   Tanchuma mars the poetic beauty of the whole.

   [714] The poetic grandeur and the Old Testament cast of the Virgin's
   hymn (comp. the Song of Hannah, 1 Sam. ii. 1-10), need scarcely be
   pointed out. Perhaps it would read fullest and best by trying to recall
   what must have been its Hebrew original.

   [715] 1st stanza vv. 46-49.

   [716] 2nd stanza, vv. 50-53.

   [717] 3rd stanza, vv. 54-55.

   [718] Weiss, while denying the historical accuracy of much in the
   Gospel-narrative of it, unhesitatingly accepts the fact of the
   supernatural birth of Jesus.

   [719] Keim elaborately discusses the origin of what he calls the legend
   of Christ's supernatural conception. He arrives at the conclusion that
   it was a Jewish-Christian legend - as if a Jewish invention of such a
   legend' were not the most unlikely of all possible hypotheses! But
   negative criticism is at least bound to furnish some historical basis
   for the origination of such an unlikely legend. Whence was the idea of
   it first derived? How did it find such ready acceptance in the Church?
   Weiss has, at considerable length, and very fully, shown the
   impossibility of its origin either in Jewish or heathen legend.

   [720] I have thus paraphrased the verb paradeigmatzo rendered in Heb.
   vi. 6 put to an open shame.' Comp. also LXX. Num. xxv. 4; Jer. xiii.
   22; Ezek. xxviii. 17 (see Grimm, Clavis N.T. p. 333 b) Archdeacon
   Farrar adopts the reading deigmatsai.

   [721] For example, if he had not sufficient witnesses, or if their
   testimony could be invalidated by any of those provisions in favour of
   the accused, of which traditionalism had not a few. Thus, as indicated
   in the text, Joseph might have privately divorced Mary leaving it open
   to doubt on what ground he had so acted.

   [722] Keth. 74 b 75 a.

   [723] Keth. 97 b.

   [724] See a former note.

   [725] Thus we read in (Shocher Tobh) the Midrash on Prov. xix. 21
   (closing part; ed. Lemberg. p. 16 b) of eight names given to the
   Messiah, viz. Yinnon (Ps. xxii. 17, His name shall sprout [bear
   sprouts] before the Sun;' comp. also Pirqé de R. El. c. 2); Jehovah;
   Our Righteousness; Tsemach (the Branch, Zech. iii. 8); Menachem (the
   Comforter, Is. li. 3); David (Ps. xviii. 50); Shiloh (Gen. xlix. 10);
   Elijah (Mal. iv. 5). The Messiah is also called Anani (He that cometh
   in the clouds, Dan. vii. 13; see Tanch. Par. Toledoth 14); Chaninah,
   with reference to Jer. xvi. 13; the Leprous, with reference to Is.
   liii. 4 (Sanh. 96 b). It is a curious instance of the Jewish mode of
   explaining a meaning by gimatreya, or numerical calculation, that they
   prove Tsemach (Branch) and Menachem (Comforter) to be the same, because
   the numerical equivalents of the one word are equal to those of the
   other: {hebrew} = 40, {hebrew} =50, {hebrew}=8, {hebrew} = 40, = 138;
   {hebrew} = 90, {hebrew} = 40, {hebrew} = 8, =138.

   [726] Professor Wünsche (Erlauter. d. Evang. p. 10) proposes to strike
   out the words from their sins' as an un-Jewish interpolation. In
   answer, it would suffice to point him to the passages on this very
   subject which he has collated in a previous work: Die Leiden des
   Messias, pp. 63-108. To these I will only add a comment in the Midrash
   on Cant. i. 14 (ed. Warshau, p. 11 a and b), where the reference is
   undoubtedly to the Messiah (in the words of R. Berakhyah, line 8 from
   bottom; and again in the words of R. Levi, 11 b, line 5 from top, &c.).
   The expression {hebrew} is there explained as meaning He Who makes
   expiation for the sins of Israel,' and it is distinctly added that this
   expiation bears reference to the transgressions and evil deeds of the
   children of Abraham, for which God provides this Man as the Atonement.

   [727] A good king, a fruitful year, and a good dream.'

   [728] Ber. 55 b.

   [729] Rabbi Zera proves this by a reference to Prov. xix. 23, the
   reading Sabhea (satisfied) being altered into Shebha - both written
   {hebrew} - while {hebrew} is understood as of spending the night. Ber.
   55 a to 57 b contains a long, and sometimes very coarse, discussion of
   dreams, giving their various interpretations, rules for avoiding the
   consequences of evil dreams, &c. The fundamental principle is, that a
   dream is according to its interpretation' (Ber. 55 b). Such views about
   dreams would, no doubt, have long been matter of popular belief, before
   being formally expressed in the Talmud.

   [730] The objection, that the account of Joseph and Mary's immediate
   marriage is inconsistent with the designation of Mary in St. Luke ii.
   5, is sufficiently refuted by the consideration that, in any other
   case, Jewish custom would not have allowed Mary to travel to Bethlehem
   in company with Joseph. The expression used in St. Luke ii. 5, must be
   read in connection with St. Matt. i. 25.

   [731] Haupt (Alttestam. Citate in d. vier Evang. pp. 207-215) rightly
   lays stress on the words, all this was done.' He even extends its
   reference to the threefold arrangement of the genealogy by St. Matthew,
   as implying the ascending splendour of the line of David, its midday
   glory, and its decline.

   [732] The correct Hebrew equivalent of the expression that it might be
   fulfilled' na pleroth is not, as Surenhusius (Biblos Katallages, p.
   151) and other writers have it, {hebrew}, still loss (Wünsche)
   {hebrew}, but, as Professor Delitzsch renders it, in his new
   translation of St. Matthew, {hebrew}. The difference is important, and
   Delitzsch's translation completely established by the similar rendering
   of the LXX. of 1 Kings ii. 27 and 2 Chron. xxxvi. 22.

   [733] Is. vii. 14.

   [734] Ex. iii. 12.

   [735] A critical discussion of Is. vii. 14 would here be out of place;
   though I have attempted to express my views in the text. (The nearest
   approach to them is that by Engelhardt in the Zeitschr. für Luth.
   Theol. fur 1872, Heft iv.). The quotation of St. Matthew follows, with
   scarcely any variation, the rendering of the LXX. That they should have
   translated the Hebrew {hebrew} by parthnos, a Virgin,' is surely
   sufficient evidence of the admissibility of such a rendering. The idea
   that the promised Son was to be either that of Ahaz, or else of the
   prophet, cannot stand the test of critical investigation (see Haupt,
   u.s., and Böhl, Alttest. Citate im N.T. pp. 3-6). Our difficulties of
   interpretation are, in great part, due to the abruptness of Isaiah's
   prophetic language, and to our ignorance of surrounding circumstances.
   Steinmeyer ingeniously argues against the mythical theory that, since
   Is. vii. 14 was not interpreted by the ancient Synagogue in a Messianic
   sense, that passage could not have led to the origination of the
   legend' about the Virgin's Son' (Gesch. d. Geb. d. Herrn, p. 95). We
   add this further question, Whence did it originate?

   [736] Pes. 4 a.

   [737] Yalkut Sh. i. par. 81.

   [738] Tanch. P Tetsavveh, at the beginning, ed. Warshau, p. 111 a.

   [739] Tanch. u. s.

   [740] Pirqé de R. Elies. c. 29.

   [741] Probably the designation of chair' or throne of Elijah,' for the
   chair on which the godparent holding the child sits, and certainly the
   invocation of Elijah, are of later date. Indeed, the institution of
   godparents is itself of later origin. Curiously enough, the Council of
   Terracina, in 1330 had to interdict Christians acting as godparents at
   circumcision! Even the great Buxtorf acted as godparent in 1619 to a
   Jewish child, and was condemned to a fine of 100 florins for his
   offence. See Löw, Lebensalter, p. 86.

   [742] According to Josephus (Ag. Ap. ii. 26) circumcision was not
   followed by a feast. But, if this be true, the practice was soon
   altered, and the feast took place on the eve of circumcision (Jer.
   Keth. i. 5; B. Kama 80 a; B. Bath. 60 b, &c.). Later Midrashim traced
   it up to the history of Abraham and the feast at the weaning of Isaac,
   which they represented as one at circumcision (Pirqé d. R. Eliez. 29).

   [743] Wünsche reiterates the groundless objection of Rabbi Low (u. s.
   p.96), that a family-name was only given in remembrance of the
   grandfather, deceased father, or other member of the family! Strange,
   that such a statement should ever have been hazarded; stranger still,
   that it should be repeated after having been fully refuted by
   Delitzsch. It certainly is contrary to Josephus (War iv. 3, 9), and to
   the circumstance that both the father and brother of Josephus bore the
   name of Mattias. See also Zunz (Z. Gesch. u. Liter. p. 318).

   [744] The reader will find B. H. Auerbach's Berith Abraham (with a
   Hebrew introduction) an interesting tractate on the subject. For
   another and younger version of these prayers, see Löw, u. s. p. 102.

   [745] From St. Luke i. 62 we gather, that Zacharias was what the Rabbis
   understood by {hebrew} - one deaf as well as dumb. Accordingly they
   communicated with him by {hebrew} signs' - as Delitzsch correctly
   renders it: {hebrew}

   [746] Although almost all modern authorities are against me, I cannot
   persuade myself that the expression (St. Luke i. 78) rendered
   dayspring' in our A. V. is here not the equivalent of the Hebrew
   {hebrew} Branch.' The LXX. at any rate rendered {hebrew} in Jer. xxiii.
   5; Ezek. xvi. 7; xvii. 10; Zech. iii. 8; vi. 12, by natol.

   [747] The italics mark the points of correspondence with the hymn of
   Zacharias. Comp. The best edition of the Jewish Prayer Book (Frankfort,
   5601), pp. 21-28.  The Eighteen Eulogies are given in full in the
   History of the Jewish Nation,' pp. 363-367.

   [748] The insertion of gr seems critically established, and gives the
   fuller meaning.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER V.
WHAT MESSIAH DID THE JEWS EXPECT?

   It were an extremely narrow, and, indeed, false view, to regard the
   difference between Judaism and Christianity as confined to the question
   of the fulfillment of certain prophecies in Jesus of Nazareth. These
   predictions could only outline individual features in the Person and
   history of the Messiah. It is not thus that a likeness is recognised,
   but rather by the combination of the various features into a unity, and
   by the expression which gives it meaning. So far as we can gather from
   the Gospel narratives, no objection was ever taken to the fulfillment
   of individual prophecies in Jesus. But the general conception which the
   Rabbis had formed of the Messiah, differed totally from what was
   presented by the Prophet of Nazareth. Thus, what is the fundamental
   divergence between the two may be said to have existed long before the
   events which finally divided them. It is the combination of letters
   which constitute words, and the same letters may be combined into
   different words. Similarly, both Rabbinism and - what, by anticipation,
   we designate - Christianity might regard the same predictions as
   Messianic, and look for their fulfillment; while at the same time the
   Messianic ideal of the Synagogue might be quite other than that, to
   which the faith and hope of the Church have clung.

   1. The most important point here is to keep in mind the organic unity
   of the Old Testament. Its predictions are not isolated, but features of
   one grand prophetic picture; its ritual and institutions parts of one
   great system; its history, not loosely connected events, but an organic
   development tending towards a definite end. Viewed in its innermost
   substance, the history of the Old Testament is not different from its
   typical institutions, nor yet these two from its predictions. The idea,
   underlying all, is God's gracious manifestation in the world - the
   Kingdom of God; the meaning of all - the establishment of this Kingdom
   upon earth. That gracious purpose was, so to speak, individualized, and
   the Kingdom actually established in the Messiah. Both the fundamental
   and the final relationship in view was that of God towards man, and of
   man towards God: the former as expressed by the word Father; the latter
   by that of Servant - or rather the combination of the two ideas:
   Son-Servant.' This was already implied in the so-called Protevangel;
   [749] and in this sense also the words of Jesus hold true: Before
   Abraham came into being, I am.'

   But, narrowing our survey to where the history of the Kingdom of God
   begins with that of Abraham, it was indeed as Jesus said: Your father
   Abraham rejoiced that he should see My day, and he saw it, and was
   glad.' [750] For, all that followed from Abraham to the Messiah was
   one, and bore this twofold impress: heavenwards, that of Son;
   earthwards, that of Servant. Israel was God's Son - His first-born;'
   their history that of the children of God; their institutions those of
   the family of God; their predictions those of the household of God. And
   Israel was also the Servant of God - Jacob My Servant;' and its
   history, institutions, and predictions those of the Servant of the
   Lord. Yet not merely Servant, but Son-Servant - anointed' to such
   service. This idea was, so to speak, crystallised in the three great
   representative institutions of Israel. The Servant of the Lord' in
   relation to Israel's history was Kingship in Israel; the Servant of the
   Lord' in relation to Israel's ritual ordinances was the Priesthood in
   Israel; the Servant of the Lord' in relation to prediction was the
   Prophetic order. But all sprang from the same fundamental idea: that of
   the Servant of Jehovah.'

   One step still remains. The Messiah and His history are not presented
   in the Old Testament as something separate from, or superadded to,
   Israel. The history, the institutions, and the predictions of Israel
   run up into Him. [751] He is the typical Israelite, nay, typical Israel
   itself - alike the crown, the completion, and the representative of
   Israel. He is the Son of God and the Servant of the Lord; but in that
   highest and only true sense, which had given its meaning to all the
   preparatory development. As He was anointed' to be the Servant of the
   Lord,' not with the typical oil, but by the Spirit of Jehovah' upon'
   Him, so was He also the Son' in a unique sense. His organic connection
   with Israel is marked by the designations Seed of Abraham' and Son of
   David,' while at the same time He was essentially, what Israel was
   subordinately and typically: Thou art My Son - this day have I begotten
   Thee.' Hence also, in strictest truthfulness, the Evangelist could
   apply to the Messiah what referred to Israel, and see it fulfilled in
   His history: Out of Egypt have I called my Son.' [752] And this other
   correlate idea, of Israel as the Servant of the Lord,' is also fully
   concentrated in the Messiah as the Representative Israelite, so that
   the Book of Isaiah, as the series of predictions in which His picture
   is most fully outlined, might be summarised as that concerning the
   Servant of Jehovah.' Moreover, the Messiah, as Representative
   Israelite, combined in Himself as the Servant of the Lord' the
   threefold office of Prophet, Priest, and King, and joined together the
   two ideas of Son' and Servant.' [753] And the final combination and
   full exhibition of these two ideas was the fulfillment of the typical
   mission of Israel, and the establishment of the Kingdom of God among
   men.

   Thus, in its final, as in its initial, [754] stage it was the
   establishment of the Kingdom of God upon earth - brought about by the
   Servant' of the Lord, Who was to stricken humanity the God-sent
   Anointed Comforter' (Mashiach ha-Menachem): in this twofold sense of
   Comforter' of individuals (the friend of sinners'), and Comforter' of
   Israel and of the world, reconciling the two, and bringing to both
   eternal salvation. And here the mission of Israel ended. It had passed
   through three stages. The first, or historical, was the preparation of
   the Kingdom of God; the second, or ritual, the typical presentation of
   that Kingdom; while the third, or prophetic, brought that Kingdom into
   actual contact with the kingdoms of the world. Accordingly, it is
   during the latter that the designation Son of David' (typical Israel)
   enlarged in the visions of Daniel into that of Son of Man' (the Head of
   redeemed humanity). It were a onesided view to regard the Babylonish
   exile as only a punishment for Israel's sin. There is, in truth,
   nothing in all God's dealings in history exclusively punitive. That
   were a merely negative element. But there is always a positive element
   also of actual progress; a step forward, even though in the taking of
   it something should have to be crushed. And this step forward was the
   development of the idea of the Kingdom of God in its relation to the
   world.

   2. This organic unity of Israel and the Messiah explains how events,
   institutions, and predictions, which initially were purely Israelitish,
   could with truth be regarded as finding their full accomplishment in
   the Messiah. From this point of view the whole Old Testament becomes
   the perspective in which the figure of the Messiah stands out. And
   perhaps the most valuable element in Rabbinic excommentation on
   Messianic times is that in which, as so frequently, it is explained,
   that all the miracles and deliverances of Israel's past would be
   re-enacted, only in a much wider manner, in the days of the Messiah.
   Thus the whole past was symbolic, and typical of the future - the Old
   Testament the glass, through which the universal blessings of the
   latter days were seen. It is in this sense that we would understand the
   two sayings of the Talmud: All the prophets prophesied only of the days
   of the Messiah,' [755] and The world was created only for the Messiah.'
   [756]

   In accordance with all this, the ancient Synagogue found references to
   the Messiah in many more passages of the Old Testament than those
   verbal predictions, to which we generally appeal; and the latter formed
   (as in the New Testament) a proportionately small, and secondary,
   element in the conception of the Messianic era. This is fully borne out
   by a detailed analysis of those passages in the Old Testament to which
   the ancient Synagogue referred as Messianic. [757] Their number amounts
   to upwards of 456 (75 from the Pentateuch, 243 from the Prophets, and
   138 from the Hagiographa), and their Messianic application is supported
   by more than 558 references to the most ancient Rabbinic writings.
   [758] But comparatively few of these are what would be termed verbal
   predictions. Rather would it seem as if every event were regarded as
   prophetic, and every prophecy, whether by fact, or by word
   (prediction), as a light to cast its sheen on the future, until the
   picture of the Messianic age in the far back-ground stood out in the
   hundredfold variegated brightness of prophetic events, and prophetic
   utterances; or, as regarded the then state of Israel, till the darkness
   of their present night was lit up by a hundred constellations kindling
   in the sky overhead, and its lonely silence broken by echoes of
   heavenly voices, and strains of prophetic hymns borne on the breeze.

   Of course, there was the danger that, amidst these dazzling lights, or
   in the crowd of figures, each so attractive, or else in the absorbing
   interest of the general picture, the grand central Personality should
   not engage the attention it claimed, and so the meaning of the whole be
   lost in the contemplation of its details. This danger was the greater
   from the absence of any deeper spiritual elements. All that Israel
   needed: study of the Law and good works,' lay within the reach of every
   one; and all that Israel hoped for, was national restoration and glory.
   Everything else was but means to these ends; the Messiah Himself only
   the grand instrument in attaining them. Thus viewed, the picture
   presented would be of Israel's exaltation, rather than of the salvation
   of the world. To this, and to the idea of Israel's exclusive spiritual
   position in the world, must be traced much, that otherwise would seem
   utterly irrational in the Rabbinic pictures of the latter days. But in
   such a picture there would be neither room nor occasion for a
   Messiah-Saviour, in the only sense in which such a heavenly mission
   could be rational, or the heart of humanity respond to it. The Rabbinic
   ideal of the Messiah was not that of a light to lighten the Gentiles,
   and the glory of His people Israel' - the satisfaction of the wants of
   humanity, and the completion of Israel's mission - but quite different,
   even to contrariety. Accordingly, there was a fundamental antagonism
   between the Rabbis and Christ, quite irrespective of the manner in
   which He carried out His Messianic work. On the other hand, it is
   equally noteworthy, that the purely national elements, which well nigh
   formed the sum total of Rabbinic expectation, scarcely entered into the
   teaching of Jesus about the Kingdom of God. And the more we realise,
   that Jesus so fundamentally separated Himself from all the ideas of His
   time, the more evidential is it of the fact, that He was not the
   Messiah of Jewish conception, but derived His mission from a source
   unknown to, or at least ignored by, the leaders of His people.

   3. But still, as the Rabbinic ideas were at least based on the Old
   Testament, we need not wonder that they also embodied the chief
   features of the Messianic history. Accordingly, a careful perusal of
   their Scripture quotations [759] shows, that the main postulates of the
   New Testament concerning the Messiah are fully supported by Rabbinic
   statements. Thus, such doctrines as the pre-mundane existence of the
   Messiah; His elevation above Moses, and even above the Angels; His
   representative character; His cruel sufferings and derision; His
   violent death, and that for His people; His work on behalf of the
   living and of the dead; His redemption, and restoration of Israel; the
   opposition of the Gentiles; their partial judgment and conversion; the
   prevalence of His Law; the universal blessings of the latter days; and
   His Kingdom - can be clearly deduced from unquestioned passages in
   ancient Rabbinic writings. Only, as we might expect, all is there
   indistinct, incoherent, unexplained, and from a much lower standpoint.
   At best, it is the lower stage of yet unfulfilled prophecy - the haze
   when the sun is about to rise, not the blaze when it has risen. Most
   painfully is this felt in connection with the one element on which the
   New Testament most insists. There is, indeed, in Rabbinic writings
   frequent reference to the sufferings, and even the death of the
   Messiah, and these are brought into connection with our sins - as how
   could it be otherwise in view of Isaiah liii. and other passages - and
   in one most remarkable comment [760] the Messiah is represented as
   willingly taking upon Himself all these sufferings, on condition that
   all Israel - the living, the dead, and those yet unborn - should be
   saved, and that, in consequence of His work, God and Israel should be
   reconciled, and Satan cast into hell. But there is only the most
   indistinct reference to the removal of sin by the Messiah, in the sense
   of vicarious sufferings.

   In connection with what has been stated, one most important point must
   be kept in view. So far as their opinions can be gathered from their
   writings, the great doctrines of Original Sin, and of the sinfulness of
   our whole nature, were not held by the ancient Rabbis. [761] Of course,
   it is not meant that they denied the consequences of sin, either as
   concerned Adam himself, or his descendants; but the final result is far
   from that seriousness which attaches to the Fall in the New Testament,
   where it is presented as the basis of the need of a Redeemer, Who, as
   the Second Adam, restored what the first had lost. The difference is so
   fundamental as to render further explanation necessary. [762]

   The fall of Adam is ascribed to the envy of the Angels [763] - not the
   fallen ones, for none were fallen, till God cast them down in
   consequence of their seduction of man. The Angels, having in vain tried
   to prevent the creation of man, at last conspired to lead him into sin
   as the only means of his ruin - the task being undertaken by Sammael
   (and his Angels), who in many respects was superior to the other
   Angelic princes. [764] The instrument employed was the serpent, of
   whose original condition the strangest legends are told, probably to
   make the Biblical narrative appear more rational. [765] The details of
   the story of the Fall, as told by the Rabbis, need not be here
   repeated, save to indicate its consequences. The first of these was the
   withdrawal of the Shekhinah from earth to the first heaven, while
   subsequent sins successively led to its further removal to the seventh
   heaven. This, however, can scarcely be considered a permanent sequel of
   sin, since the good deeds of seven righteous men, beginning with
   Abraham, brought it again, in the time of Moses, to earth. [766] Six
   things Adam is said to have lost by his sin; but even these are to be
   restored to man by the Messiah. [767] [768] That the physical death of
   Adam was the consequence of his sin, is certainly taught. Otherwise he
   would have lived forever, like Enoch and Elijah. [769] But although the
   fate which overtook Adam was to rest on all the world, [770] and death
   came not only on our first father but on his descendants, and all
   creation lost its perfectness, [771] yet even these temporal sequences
   are not universally admitted. It rather seems taught, that death was
   intended to be the fate of all, or sent to show the folly of men
   claiming Divine worship, or to test whether piety was real, [772] the
   more so that with death the weary struggle with our evil inclination
   ceased. It was needful to die when our work was done, that others might
   enter upon it. In each case death was the consequence of our own, not
   of Adam's sin. [773] In fact, over these six - Abraham, Isaac, Jacob,
   Moses, Aaron, and Miriam - the Angel of Death had had no absolute
   power. Nay, there was a time when all Israel were not only free from
   death, but like the Angels, and even higher than they. For, originally
   God had offered the Law to all Gentile nations, [774] but they had
   refused to submit to it. [775] But when Israel took on themselves the
   Law at Mount Sinai, the description in Psalm 1xxxii. 6 applied
   literally to them. They would not have died, and were the sons of God.'
   [776] But all this was lost by the sin of making the golden calf -
   although the Talmud marks that, if Israel had continued in that Angelic
   state, the nation would have ceased with that generation. [777] Thus
   there were two divergent opinions - the one ascribing death to
   personal, the other tracing it to Adam's guilt. [778]

   When, however, we pass from the physical to the moral sequences of the
   fall, our Jewish authorities wholly fail us. They teach, that man is
   created with two inclinations - that to evil (the Yetser ha-ra), and
   that to good; [779] the first working in him from the beginning, the
   latter coming gradually in the course of time. [780] Yet, so far from
   guilt attaching to the Yetser ha-ra, its existence is absolutely
   necessary, if the world is to continue. [781] In fact, as the Talmud
   expressly teaches, [782] the evil desire or impulse was created by God
   Himself; while it is also asserted [783] that, on seeing the
   consequences, God actually repented having done so. This gives quite
   another character to sin, as due to causes for which no blame attaches
   to man. [784] On the other hand, as it is in the power of each wholly
   to overcome sin, and to gain life by study and works; [785]   as Israel
   at Mount Sinai had actually got rid of the Yetser ha-ra; and as there
   had been those, who were entirely righteous [786] - there scarcely
   remains any moral sequence of Adam's fall to be considered. Similarly,
   the Apocrypha are silent on the subject, the only exception being the
   very strong language used in II. Esdras, which dates after the
   Christian era. [787] [788]

   4. In the absence of felt need of deliverance from sin, we can
   understand, how Rabbinic tradition found no place for the Priestly
   office of the Messiah, and how even His claims to be the Prophet of His
   people are almost entirely overshadowed by His appearance as their King
   and Deliverer. This, indeed, was the ever-present want, pressing the
   more heavily as Israel's national sufferings seemed almost
   inexplicable, while they contrasted so sharply with the glory expected
   by the Rabbis. Whence these sufferings? From sin [789] - national sin;
   the idolatry of former times; [790] the prevalence of crimes and vices;
   the dereliction of God's ordinances; [791] the neglect of instruction,
   of study, and of proper practice of His Law; and, in later days, the
   love of money and party strife. [792] But the seventy years' captivity
   had ceased, why not the present dispersion? Because hypocrisy had been
   added to all other sins; [793] because there had not been proper
   repentance; [794] because of the half-heartedness of the Jewish
   proselytes; because of improper marriages, and other evil customs;
   [795] and because of the gross dissoluteness of certain cities. [796]
   The consequences appeared not only in the political condition of
   Israel, but in the land itself, in the absence of rain and dew, of
   fruitfulness and of plenty; in the general disorder of society; the
   cessation of piety and of religious study; and the silence of prophecy.
   [797] As significantly summed up, Israel was without Priesthood,
   without law, without God. [798] Nay, the world itself suffered in
   consequence of the destruction of the Temple. In a very remarkable
   passage, [799] where it is explained, that the seventy bullocks offered
   during the Feast of Tabernacles were for the nations of the world, R.
   Jochanan deplores their fate, since while the Temple had stood the
   altar had atoned for the Gentiles, but who was now to do so? The light,
   which had shone from out the Temple windows into the world, had been
   extinguished. [800] Indeed, but for the intercession of the Angels the
   world would now be destroyed. [801] In the poetic language of the time,
   the heavens, sun, moon and stars, trees and mountains, even the Angels,
   mourned over the desolation of the Temple, [802] [803] and the very
   Angelic hosts had since been diminished. [804] But, though the Divine
   Presence had been withdrawn, it still lingered near His own; it had
   followed them in all their banishments; it had suffered with them in
   all their sorrows. [805] It is a touching legend, which represents the
   Shekhinah as still lingering over the western wall of the Temple [806]
   - the only one supposed to be still standing. [807] Nay, in language
   still bolder, and which cannot be fully reproduced, God Himself is
   represented as mourning over Jerusalem and the Temple. He has not
   entered His Palace since then, and His hair is wet with the dew. [808]
   He weeps over His children and their desolateness, [809] and displays
   in the heavens tokens of mourning, corresponding to those which an
   earthly monarch would show. [810]

   All this is to be gloriously set right, when the Lord turneth the
   captivity of Zion, and the Messiah cometh. But when may He be expected,
   and what are the signs of His coming? Or perhaps the question should
   thus be put: Why are the redemption of Israel and the coming of the
   Messiah so unaccountably delayed? It is here that the Synagogue finds
   itself in presence of an insoluble mystery. The explanations attempted
   are, confessedly, guesses, or rather attempts to evade the issue. The
   only course left is, authoritatively to impose silence on all such
   inquiries - the silence, as they would put it, of implicit, mournful
   submission to the inexplicable, in faith that somehow, when least
   expected, deliverance would come; or, as we would put it, the silence
   of ever-recurring disappointment and despair. Thus the grand hope of
   the Synagogue is, as it were, written in an epitaph on a broken
   tombstone, to be repeated by the thousands who, for these long
   centuries, have washed the ruins of the Sanctuary with unavailing
   tears.

   5. Why delayeth the Messiah His coming? Since the brief and broken
   sunshine of the days of Ezra and Nehemiah, the sky overhead has ever
   grown darker, nor have even the terrible storms, which have burst over
   Israel, reft the canopy of cloud. The first capitivity passed, why not
   the second? This is the painful question ever and again discussed by
   the Rabbis. [811] Can they mean it seriously, that the sins of the
   second, are more grievous than those which caused the first dispersion;
   or that they of the first captivity repented, but not they of the
   second? What constitutes this repentance which yet remains to be made?
   But the reasoning becomes absolutely self-contradictory when, together
   with the assertion that, if Israel repented but one day, the Messiah
   would come, [812] we are told, that Israel will not repent till Elijah
   comes. [813] Besides, bold as the language is, there is truth in the
   expostulation, which the Midrash [814] puts into the mouth of the
   congregation of Israel: Lord of the world, it depends on Thee that we
   repent.' Such truth, that, although at first the Divine reply is a
   repetition of Zechar. i. 3, yet, when Israel reiterates the words, Turn
   Thou us unto Thee, O Lord, and we shall be turned,' supporting them by
   Ps lxxxv. 4, the argument proves unanswerable.

   Other conditions of Israel's deliverance are, indeed, mentioned. But we
   can scarcely regard the Synagogue as seriously making the coming of
   Messiah dependent on their realisation. Among the most touching of
   these is a beautiful passage (almost reminding us of Heb. xi.), in
   which Israel's future deliverance is described as the reward of faith.
   [815] Similarly beautiful is the thought, [816] that, when God redeems
   Israel, it will be amidst their weeping. [817] But neither can this be
   regarded as the condition of Messiah's coming; nor yet such
   generalities as the observance of the Law, or of some special
   commandments. The very variety of suggestions [818] [819] shows, how
   utterly unable the Synagogue felt to indicate any condition to be
   fulfilled by Israel. Such vague statements, as that the salvation of
   Israel depended on the merits of the patriarchs, or on that of one of
   them, cannot help us to a solution; and the long discussion in the
   Talmud [820] leaves no doubt, that the final and most sober opinion
   was, that the time of Messiah's coming depended not on repentance, nor
   any other condition, but on the mercy of God, when the time fixed had
   arrived. But even so, we are again thrown into doubt by the statement,
   that it might be either hastened or retarded by Israel's bearing! [821]

   In these circumstances, any attempt at determining the date of
   Messiah's coming would be even more hypothetical than such calculations
   generally are. [822] Guesses on the subject could only be grounded on
   imaginary symbolisms. Of such we have examples in the Talmud. [823]
   Thus, some fixed the date at 4000 years after the Creation - curiously
   enough, about the era of Christ - though Israel's sin had blotted out
   the whole past from the reckoning; others at 4291 from the Creation;
   [824] others again expected it at the beginning, or end, of the
   eighty-fifth Jubilee - with this proviso, that it would not take place
   earlier; and so on, through equally groundless conjectures. A
   comparatively late work speaks of five monarchies - Babylon,
   Medo-Persia, Greece, Rome and Ishmael. During the last of these God
   would hear the cry of Israel, [825] and the Messiah come, after a
   terrible war between Rome and Ishmael (the West and the East). [826]
   But as the rule of these monarchies was to last altogether one day (=
   1000 years), less two-thirds of an hour (1 hour = 83 ½ years); [827] it
   would follow, that their domination would last 944 4/9 years. [828]
   Again, according to Jewish tradition, the rule of Babylon had lasted
   70, that of Medo-Persia 34, and that of Greece 180 years, leaving 660
   4/9 years for Rome and Ishmael. Thus the date for the expected Advent
   of the Messiah would have been about 661 after the destruction of
   Jerusalem, or about the year 729 of the Christian era. [829]

   In the category of guesses we must also place such vague statements, as
   that the Messiah would come, when all were righteous, or all wicked; or
   else nine months after the empire of Rome had extended over the whole
   world; [830] [831] or when all the souls, predestined to inhabit
   bodies, had been on earth. [832] But as, after years of unrelieved
   sufferings, the Synagogue had to acknowledge that, one by one, all the
   terms had passed, and as despair settled on the heart of Israel, it
   came to be generally thought, that the time of Messiah's Advent could
   not be known beforehand, [833] and that speculation on the subject was
   dangerous, sinful, even damnable. The time of the end had, indeed, been
   revealed to two sons of Adam, Jacob and David; but neither of them had
   been allowed to make it known. [834] In view of this, it can scarcely
   be regarded as more than a symbolical, though significant guess, when
   the future redemption of Israel is expected on the Paschal Day, the
   15th of Nisan. [835] [836]

   6. We now approach this most difficult and delicate question: What was
   the expectation of the ancient Synagogue, as regarded the Nature,
   Person, and qualifications of the Messiah? In answering it - not at
   present from the Old Testament, but from the views expressed in Rabinic
   literature, and, so far as we can gather from the Gospel-narratives,
   from those cherished by the contemporaries of Christ - two inferences
   seem evident. First, the idea of a Divine Personality, and of the union
   of the two Natures in the Messiah, seems to have been foreign to the
   Jewish auditory of Jesus of Nazareth, and even at first to His
   disciples. Secondly, they appear to have regarded the Messiah as far
   above the ordinary human, royal, prophetic, and even Angelic type, to
   such extent, that the boundary-line separating it from Divine
   Personality is of the narrowest, so that, when the conviction of the
   reality of the Messianic manifestation in Jesus burst on their minds,
   this boundary-line was easily, almost naturally, overstepped, and those
   who would have shrunk from framing their belief in such dogmatic form,
   readily owned and worshipped Him as the Son of God. Nor need we wonder
   at this, even taking the highest view of Old Testament prophecy. For
   here also the principle applies, which underlies one of St. Paul's most
   wide-reaching utterance: We prophesy in part' [837] (k mrous
   propheteomen). [838] In the nature of it, all prophecy presents but
   disjecta, membra, and it almost seems, as if we had to take our stand
   in the prophet's valley of vision (Ezek. xxxvii.), waiting till, at the
   bidding of the Lord, the scattered bones should be joined into a body,
   to which the breath of the Spirit would give life.

   These two inferences, derived from the Gospel-narratives, are in exact
   accordance with the whole line of ancient Jewish teaching. Beginning
   with the LXX. rendering of Genesis xlix. 10, and especially of Numbers
   xxiv. 7, 17, we gather, that the Kingdom of the Messiah [839] was
   higher than any that is earthly, and destined to subdue them all. But
   the rendering of Psalm lxxii. 5, 7; Psalm cx. 3; and especially of
   Isaiah ix., carries us much farther. They convey the idea, that the
   existence of this Messiah was regarded as premundane (before the moon,
   [840] before the morning-star [841] ), and eternal, [842] and His
   Person and dignity as superior to that of men and Angels: the Angel of
   the Great Council,' [843] [844] probably the Angel of the Face' - a
   view fully confirmed by the rendering of the Targum. [845] The silence
   of the Apocrypha about the Person of the Messiah is so strange, as to
   be scarcely explained by the consideration, that those books were
   composed when the need of a Messiah for the deliverance of Israel was
   not painfully felt. [846] All the more striking are the allusions in
   the Pseudepigraphic Writings, although these also do not carry us
   beyond our two inferences. Thus, the third book of the Sibylline
   Oracles - which, with few exceptions, [847] dates from more than a
   century and a half before Christ - presents a picture of Messianic
   times, [848] generally admitted to have formed the basis of Virgil's
   description of the Golden Age, and of similar heathen expectations. In
   these Oracles, 170 years before Christ, the Messiah is the King sent
   from heaven' who would judge every man in blood and splendour of fire.'
   [849] Similarly, the vision of Messianic times opens with a reference
   to the King Whom God will send from the sun.' [850] [851] That a
   superhuman Kingdom of eternal duration, such as this vision paints,
   [852] should have a superhuman King, seems almost a necessary
   corollary. [853]

   Even more distinct are the statements in the so-called Book of Enoch.'
   Critics are substantially agreed, that the oldest part of it [854]
   dates from between 150 and 130 b.c. [855] The part next in date is full
   of Messianic allusions; but, as a certain class of modern writers has
   ascribed to it a post-Christian date, and, however ungrounded, [856] to
   Christian authorship, it may be better not to refer to it in the
   present argument, the more so as we have other testimony from the time
   of Herod. Not to speak, therefore, of such peculiar designations of the
   Messiah as the Woman's Son,' [857] the Son of Man,' [858] the Elect,'
   and the Just One,' we mark that the Messiah is expressly designed in
   the oldest portion as the Son of God' (I and My Son'). [859] That this
   implies, not, indeed, essential Sonship, but infinite superiority over
   all other servants of God, and rule over them, appears from the mystic
   description of the Messiah as the first of the [now changed] white
   bulls,' the great Animal among them, having great and black horns on
   His head' [860] - Whom all the beasts of the field and all the fowls of
   heaven dread, and to Whom they cry at all times.'

   Still more explicit is that beautiful collection of eighteen Psalms,
   dating from about half a century before Christ, which bears the name of
   the Psalter of Solomon.' A chaste anticipation of the Messianic Kingdom
   [861] is followed by a full description of its need and its blessings,
   [862] to which the concluding Psalm [863] forms an apt epilogue. The
   King Who reigns is of the house of David. [864] He is the Son of David,
   Who comes at the time known to God only, to reign over Israel. [865] He
   is a righteous King, taught of God. [866] He is Christ the Lord.
   (Christs Krios, [867] exactly as in the LXX. translations of
   Lamentations iv. 20). He is pure from sin,' which qualifies Him for
   ruling His people, and banishing sinners by His word. [868] Never in
   His days will He be infirm towards His God, since God renders Him
   strong in the Holy Ghost,' wise in counsel, with might and
   righteousness (mighty in deed and word'). The blessing of the Lord
   being upon Him, He does not fail. [869] This is the beauty of the King
   of Israel, Whom God hath chosen, to set Him over the house of Israel to
   rule it.' [870] Thus invincible, not by outward might, but in His God,
   He will bring His people the blessings of restoration to their tribal
   possessions, and of righteousness, but break in pieces His enemies, not
   by outward weapons, but by the word of His mouth; purify Jerusalem, and
   judge the nations, who will be subject to His rule, and behold and own
   His glory. [871] Manifestly, this is not an earthly Kingdom, nor yet an
   earthly King.

   If we now turn to works dating after the Christian era, we would
   naturally expect them, either simply to reproduce earlier opinions, or,
   from opposition to Christ, to present the Messiah in a less exalted
   manner. [872] But since, strange to say, they even more strongly assert
   the high dignity of the Messiah, we are warranted in regarding this as
   the rooted belief of the Synagogue. [873] This estimate of the Messiah
   may be gathered from IV Esdras, [874] [875] with which the kindred
   picture of the Messiah and His reign in the Apocalypse of Baruch [876]
   may be compared. But even in strictly Rabbinic documents, the
   premundane, if not the eternal existence of the Messiah appears as
   matter of common belief. Such is the view expressed in the Targum on
   Is. ix. 6, and in that on Micah v. 2. But the Midrash on Prov. viii. 9
   [877] expressly mentions the Messiah among the seven things created
   before the world. [878] The passage is the more important, as it throws
   light on quite a series of others, in which the Name of the Messiah is
   said to have been created before the world. [879] [880] [881] [882]
   Even if this were an ideal conception, it would prove the Messiah to be
   elevated above the ordinary conditions of humanity. But it means much
   more than this, since not only the existence of the Messiah long before
   His actual appearance, but His premundane state are clearly taught in
   other places. In the Talmud [883] it is not only implied, that the
   Messiah may already be among the living, but a strange story is
   related, according to which He had actually been born in the royal
   palace at Bethlehem, bore the name Menachem (Comforter), was discovered
   by one R. Judan through a peculiar device, but had been carried away by
   a storm. Similarly, the Babylon Talmud represents Him as sitting at the
   gate of Imperial Rome. [884] In general, the idea of the Messiah's
   appearance and concealment is familiar to Jewish tradition. [885] [886]
   But the Rabbis go much farther back, and declare that from the time of
   Judah's marriage, [887] God busied Himself with creating the light of
   the Messiah,' it being significantly added that, before the first
   oppressor [Pharaoh] was born, the final deliverer [Messiah, the son of
   David] was already born.' [888] In another passage the Messiah is
   expresily identified with Anani, [889] [890] and therefore represented
   as pre-existent long before his actual manifestation. [891] The same
   inference may be drawn from His emphatic designation as the First.
   [892] Lastly, in Yalkut on Is. lx., the words In Thy light shall we see
   light' (Ps. xxxvi. 9) are explained as meaning, that this is the light
   of the Messiah, - the same which God had at the first pronounced to be
   very good, and which, before the world was created, He had hid beneath
   the throne of His glory for the Messiah and His age. When Satan asked
   for whom it was reserved, he was told that it was destined for Him Who
   would put him to shame, and destroy him. And when, at his request, he
   was shown the Messiah, he fell on his face and owned, that the Messiah
   would in the future cast him and the Gentiles into Gehenna [893]
   Whatever else may be inferred from it, this passage clearly implies not
   only the pre-existence, but the premundane existence of the Messiah.
   [894]

   But, indeed, it carries us much farther. For, a Messiah, preexistent,
   in the Presence of God, and destined to subdue Satan and cast him into
   hell, could not have been regarded as an ordinary man. It is indeed
   true that, as the history of Elijah, so that of the Messiah is
   throughout compared with that of Moses, the first' with the last
   Redeemer.' As Moses was educated at the court of Pharaoh, so the
   Messiah dwells in Rome (or Edom) among His enemies. [895] Like Moses He
   comes, withdraws, and comes again. [896] Like Moses He works
   deliverance. But here the analogy ceases, for, whereas the redemption
   by Moses was temporary and comparatively small, that of the Messiah
   would be eternal and absolute. All the marvels connected with Moses
   were to be intensified in the Messiah. The ass on which the Messiah
   would ride - and this humble estate was only caused by Israel's sin
   [897] - would be not only that on which Moses had come back to Egypt,
   but also that which Abraham had used when he went to offer up Isaac,
   and which had been specially created on the eve of the world's first
   Sabbath. [898] Similarly, the horns of the ram caught in the thicket,
   which was offered instead of Isaac, were destined for blowing - the
   left one by the Almighty on Mount Sinai, the right and larger one by
   the Messiah, when He would gather the outcasts of Israel (Is. xxvii.
   13). [899] Again, the rod' of the Messiah was that of Aaron, which had
   budded, blossomed, and burst into fruit; as also that on which Jacob
   had leaned, and which, through Judah, had passed to all the kings of
   Israel, till the destruction of the Temple. [900] And so the principle
   that the later Deliverer would be like the first' was carried into
   every detail. As the first Deliverer brought down the Manna, so the
   Messiah; [901] as the first Deliverer had made a spring of water to
   rise, so would the second. [902]

   But even this is not all. That the Messiah had, without any
   instruction, attained to knowledge of God; [903] and that He had
   received, directly from Him, all wisdom, knowledge, counsel, and grace,
   [904] is comparatively little, since the same was claimed for Abraham,
   Job, and Hezekiah. But we are told that, when God showed Moses all his
   successors, the spirit of wisdom and knowledge in the Messiah equalled
   that of all the others together. [905] The Messiah would be greater
   than the Patriarchs,' higher than Moses, [906] and even loftier than
   the ministering Angels. [907] In view of this we can understand, how
   the Midrash on Psalm xxi. 3 should apply to the Messiah, in all its
   literality, that God would set His own crown on His head,' and clothe
   Him with His honour and majesty.' It is only consistent that the same
   Midrash should assign to the Messiah the Divine designations: Jehovah
   is a Man of War,' and Jehovah our Righteousness.' [908] One other
   quotation, from perhaps the most spiritual Jewish commentary, must be
   added, reminding us of that outburst of adoring wonder which once
   greeted Jesus of Nazareth. The passage first refers to the seven
   garments with which God successively robed Himself - the first of
   honour and glory,' at creation; [909] the second of majesty,' at the
   Red Sea; [910] the third of strength,' at the giving of the Law; [911]
   the fourth white,' when He blotteth out the sins of Israel; [912] the
   fifth of zeal,' when He avengeth them of their enemies; [913] the sixth
   of righteousness,' at the time when the Messiah should be revealed;
   [914] and the seventh red,' when He would take vengeance on Edom
   (Rome). [915] But,' continues the commentary, the garment with which in
   the future He will clothe the Messiah, its splendour will extend from
   one end of the world to the other, as it is written: [916] "As a
   bridegroom priestly in headgear." And Israel are astounded at His
   light, and say: Blessed the hour in which the Messiah was created;
   blessed the womb whence He issued; blessed the generation that sees
   Him; blessed the eye that is worthy to behold Him; because the opening
   of His lips is blessing and peace, and His speech quieting of the
   spirit. Glory and majesty are in His appearance (vesture), and
   confidence and tranquillity in His words; and on His tongue compassion
   and forgiveness; His prayer is a sweet-smelling odour, and His
   supplication holiness and purity. Happy Israel, what is reserved for
   you! Thus it is written: [917] "How manifold is Thy goodness, which
   Thou hast reserved to them that fear Thee."' [918] Such a King Messiah
   might well be represented as sitting at the Right Hand of God, while
   Abraham was only at His left; [919] nay, as throwing forth His Right
   Hand, while God stood up to war for Him. [920]

   It is not without hesitation, that we make reference to Jewish
   allusions to the miraculous birth of the Saviour. Yet there are two
   expressions, which convey the idea, if not of superhuman origin, yet of
   some great mystery attaching to His birth. The first occurs in
   connection with the birth of Seth. Rabbi Tanchuma said, in the name of
   Rabbi Samuel: Eve had respect [had regard, looked forward] to that Seed
   which is to come from another place. And who is this? This is Messiah
   the King.' [921] The second appears in the narrative of the crime of
   Lot's daughters: [922] It is not written "that we may preserve a son
   from our father," but "seed from our father." This is that seed which
   is coming from another place. And who is this? This is the King
   Messiah.' [923] [924]

   That a superhuman character attached, if not to the Personality, yet to
   the Mission of the Messiah, appears from three passages, in which the
   expression, The Spirit of the Lord moved upon the face of the deep,' is
   thus paraphrased: This is the Spirit of the King Messiah.' [925] [926]
   Whether this implies some activity of the Messiah in connection with
   creation, [927] or only that, from the first, His Mission was to have a
   bearing on all creation, it elevates His character and work above every
   other agency, human or Angelic. And, without pressing the argument, it
   is at least very remarkable that even the Ineffable Name Jehovah is
   expressly attributed to the Messiah. [928] [929] The whole of this
   passage, beginning at p. 147 b, is very curious and deeply interesting.
   It would lead too far to quote fact becomes the more significant, when
   we recall that one of the most familiar names of the Messiah was Anani
   - He Who cometh in the clouds of heaven. [930]

   In what has been stated, no reference has been made to the final
   conquests of Messiah, to His reign with all its wonders, or to the
   subdual of all nation - in short, to what are commonly called the last
   things.' This will be treated in another connection. Nor is it
   contented that, whatever individuals may have expected, the Synagogue
   taught the doctrine of the Divine Personality of the Messiah, as held
   by the Christian Church. On the other hand, the cumulative evidence
   just presented must leave on the mind at least this conviction, that
   the Messiah expected was far above the conditions of the most exalted
   of God's servants, even His Angels; in short, so closely bordering on
   the Divine, that it was almost impossible to distinguish Him therefrom.
   In such circumstances, it only needed the personal conviction, that He,
   Who taught and wrought as none other, was really the Messiah, to kindle
   at His word into the adoring confession, that He was indeed the Son of
   the Living God.' And once that point reached, the mind, looking back
   through the teaching of the Synagogue, would, with increasing
   clearness, perceive that, however ill-understood in the past, this had
   been all along the sum of the whole Old Testament. Thus, we can
   understand alike the preparedness for, and yet the gradualness of
   conviction on this point; then, the increasing clearness with which it
   emerged in the consciousness of the disciples; and, finally, the
   unhesitating distinctness with which it was put forward in Apostolic
   teaching as the fundamental article of belief to the Church Catholic.
   [931]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [749] Gen. iii. 13.

   [750] St. John viii. 56.

   [751] In this respect there is deep significance in the Jewish legend
   (frequently introduced; see, for example, Tanch. ii. 99 a; Deb. R. 1),
   that all the miracles which God had shown to Israel in the wilderness
   would be done again to redeemed Zion in the latter days.'

   [752] St. Matt. ii. 15.

   [753] Phil. ii. 6-11.

   [754] Gen. iii. 15.

   [755] Sanh. 99 a.

   [756] Sanh. 98 b.

   [757] See Appendix IX., where a detailed list is given of all the Old
   Testament passages which the ancient Synagogue applied Messianically,
   together with the references to the Rabbinic works where they are
   quoted.

   [758] Large as this number is, I do not present the list as complete.
   Thus, out of the thirty-seven Parashahs constituting the Midrash on
   Leviticus, no fewer than twenty-five close with an outlook on Messianic
   times. The same may be said of the close of many of the Parashahs in
   the Midrashim known as Pesiqta and Tanchuma (Zunz, u.s. pp. 181, 234).
   Besides, the oldest portions of the Jewish liturgy are full of
   Messianic aspirations.

   [759] For these, see Appendix IX.

   [760] Yalkut on Is. ix. 1.

   [761] This is the view expressed by all Jewish dogmatic writers. See
   also Weber, Altsynag. Theol. p. 217.

   [762] Comp. on the subject. Ber. R. 12-16.

   [763] In Ber. R., however, it has seemed to me, as if sometimes a
   mystical and symbolical view of the history of the Fall were insinuated
   - evil concupiscence being the occasion of it.

   [764] Pirqé de R. El. c. 13; Yalkut i. p. 8 c.

   [765] Comp. Pirqé de R. El. and Yalkut, u.s.; also Ber. R. 19.

   [766] Ber. R. 19, ed. Warshau, p. 37 a.

   [767] Bemidb. R. 13.

   [768] They are: the shining splendour of his person, even his heels
   being like suns; his gigantic size, from east to west, from earth to
   heaven; the spontaneous splendid products of the ground, and of all
   fruit-trees; an infinitely greater measure of light on the part of the
   heavenly bodies; and, finally, endless duration of life (Ber. R. 12,
   ed. Warsh. p. 24 b; Ber. R. 21; Sanh. 38 b; Chag. 12 a; and for their
   restoration by the Messiah, Bem. R. 13).

   [769] Vayyikra R. 27.

   [770] Ber. R. 16, 21, and often.

   [771] Ber. R. 5, 12, 10; comp. also Midr. on Eccl. vii. 13; and viii.
   1, and Baba B. 17 a.

   [772] Ber. R. 9.

   [773] Bemidb. R. 19.

   [774] According to Deut.xxxiii. 2; Hab. iii. 3.

   [775] Ab. Zar. 2 b.

   [776] Ab. Z. 5 a.

   [777] By a most ingenious theological artifice the sin of the golden
   calf, and that of David are made matter for thanksgiving; the one as
   showing that, even if the whole people sinned, God was willing to
   forgive; the other as proving, that God graciously condescended to each
   individual sinner, and that to each the door of repentance was open.

   [778] In the Talmud (Shabb. 55 a and b) each view is supported in
   discussion, the one by a reference to Ezek. xviii. 20, the other to
   Eccles. ix. 2 (comp. also Siphré on Deut. xxxii. 49). The final
   conclusion, however, greatly inclines towards the connection between
   death and the fall (see especially the clear statement in Debar. R. 9,
   ed. Warsh., p. 20 a). This view is also supported by such passages in
   the Apocrypha as Wisdom ii. 23, 24; iii. 1, &c.; while, on the other
   hand, Ecclus. xv. 11-17 seems rather to point in a different direction.

   [779] Targum Ps.-Jon. on Gen. ii. 7.

   [780] Nedar. 32 b; Midr. on Eccl. iv. 13, 14, ed. W. p. 89 a; ix. 15;
   ib. p. 101 a.

   [781] Ber. R. 9.

   [782] Ber. 61 a.

   [783] Sukk. 52 a, and Yalkut ii. p. 149 b.

   [784] Comp. also Jer. Targum on Ex. xxxii. 22.

   [785] Ab. Z. 5 b; Kidd. 30 b.

   [786] For example, Yoma 28 b; Chag. 4 b.

   [787] Comp. IV. Esd. iii. 21, 22, 26; iv. 30; and especially vii.
   46-53.

   [788] There can be no question that, despite its strong polemical
   tendency against Christianity, the Fourth Book of Esdras (II. Esdras in
   our Apocrypha), written at the close of the first century of our era,
   is deeply tinged with Christian doctrine. Of course, the first two and
   the last two chapters in our Apocryphal II. Esdras are later spurious
   additions of Christian authorship. But in proof of the influence of the
   Christian teaching on the writer of the Fourth Book of Esdras we may
   call attention, besides the adoption of the doctrine of original sin,
   to the remarkable application to Israel of such N.T. expressions as the
   firstborn,' the only-begotten,' and the Well-beloved' (IV. Esdras vi.
   58 - in our Apocr. II. Esdras iv. 58).

   [789] Men. 53 b.

   [790] Gitt. 7 a.

   [791] Gitt. 88 a.

   [792] Jer. Yoma i. 1; Yoma 9 a, and many other passages.

   [793] Yoma 9 b.

   [794] Jer. Yoma i. 1.

   [795] Nidd. 13 b.

   [796] Yoma 19 b.

   [797] For all these points comp. Ber. 58 b; 59 a; Sot. 48 a; Shabb. 138
   b; Baba B. 12 a, b.

   [798] Vayyikra R 19.

   [799] Sukk. 55 b.

   [800] Pesiqta, 1 ed. Buber, p. 145 a, last lines.

   [801] Midr, on Ps.cxxxvii.

   [802] Pesiqta 148 b.

   [803] This is the Pesiqta, not that which is generally quoted either as
   Rabbathi or Sutarta.

   [804] Chag. 13 b.

   [805] This in very many Rabbinical passages. Comp. Castelli, II Messia,
   p. 176, note 4.

   [806] Shemoth R. 2. ed. Warsh. p. 7 b, lines 12 &c.

   [807] In proof they appeal to such passages as 2 Chr. vii. 16; Ps. iii.
   4; Cant. ii. 9, proving it even from the decree of Cyrus (Ezra i. 3,
   4), in which God is spoken of as still in desolate Jerusalem.

   [808] The passage from Yalkut on Is. lx. 1 is quoted in full in
   Appendix IX.

   [809] Ber. 3 a; 59 a.

   [810] Pesiqta 119 b; 120 a.

   [811] Jer. Yoma i. 1, ed. Krot. p 38 c, last part, Sanh. 97 b, 98 a.

   [812] Midr. on Cant. v. 2, ed. Warsh. p. 25 a; Sanh. 98 a.

   [813] Pirqé de R. Eliez. 43 end.

   [814] On Lam. v. 21, ed. Warsh. vol. iii. p. 77 a.

   [815] Tanch. on Ex. xv. 1, ed. Warsh. p. 86 b.

   [816] On Jer. xxxi. 9.

   [817] Tanch. on Gen. xiv. 2, ed. Warsh.

   [818] Sanh. 97 b 98 a.

   [819] The reader will find these discussions summarised at the close of
   Appendix IX.

   [820] Sanh. 98 a and b.

   [821] See, on the whole subject, also Debar. R. 2.

   [822] We put aside, as universally repudiated, the opinion expressed by
   one Rabbi, that Israel's Messianic era was past, the promises having
   been fulfilled in King Hezekiah (Sanh. 98 b; 99 a).

   [823] See, in Appendix IX. the extracts from Sanh.

   [824] Sanh. 97 b.

   [825] Pirqé de R. Ehes. 32.

   [826] u. s. 30.

   [827] Comp. Pirqé de R. El. 48.

   [828] Pirqé de R. El. 28. The reasoning by which this duration of the
   monarchies is derived from Lament. i. 13 and Zech. xiv. 7, is a very
   curious specimen of Rabbinic argumentation.

   [829] Comp. Zunz, Gottesd. Vortr. p. 277.

   [830] Sanh. 98 b.

   [831] See Appendix IX.

   [832] Ab. Z. 5 a, Ber. R. 24.

   [833] Targum Pseudo-Jon on Gen. xlix. 1.

   [834] Midrash on Ps. xxxi. ed. Warsh. p. 41 a, lines 18 to 15 from
   bottom.

   [835] Pesikta, ed. Buber, 47 b. 48 a, Sopher. xxi. Hal. 2. Shir.
   haShir. R. ii. 8. ed. Warsh. vol. iii. p. 15 a.

   [836] Solitary opinions, however, place the future redemption in the
   month Tishri (Tanch. on Ex. xii. 37, ed. Warsh. p. 81 b, line 2 from
   bottom.)

   [837] See the telling remarks of Oehler in Herzog's Real-Encykul., vol.
   ix. p. 417. We would add, that there is always a hereafter' of further
   development in the history of the individual believer, as in that of
   the Church - growing brighter and brighter, with increased spiritual
   communication and knowledge, till at last the perfect light is reached.

   [838] 1 Cor. xiii. 9.

   [839] No reasonable doubt can be left on the mind, that the LXX.
   translators have here the Messiah in view.

   [840] Ps. lxxii.

   [841] Ps. cx.

   [842] Ps. lxxii.

   [843] Is. ix. 6.

   [844] The criticism of Mr. Drummond on these three passages (Jewish
   Messiah, pp. 290, 291) cannot be supported on critical grounds.

   [845] Three, if not four, different renderings of the Targum on Is. ix.
   6 are possible. But the minimum conveyed to my mind implies the
   premundane existence, the eternal continuance, and the superhuman
   dignity of the Messiah. (See also the Targum on Micah v. 2.)

   [846] This is the view of Grimm, and more fully carried out by Oehler.
   The argument of Hengstenberg, that the mention of such a Messiah was
   restrained from fear of the heathen, does not deserve serious
   refutation.

   [847] These exceptions are, according to Friedlieb (Die Sibyllin.
   Weissag.) vv. 1-45, vv. 47-96 (dating from 40-31 before Christ), and
   vv. 818-828. On the subject generally, see our previous remarks in Book
   1.

   [848] vv. 652-807.

   [849] vv. 285, 286.

   [850] v. 652.

   [851] Mr. Drummond defends (at pp. d 274, 275) Holtxmann's view, that
   the expression applies to Simon the Maccabee, although on p. 291 he
   argues on the opposite supposition that the text refers to the Messiah.
   It is difficult to understand, how on reading the whole passage the
   hypothesis of Holtzmann could be entertained. While referring to the
   3rd Book of the Sib. Or., another point of considerable interest
   deserves notice. According to the theory which places the authorship of
   Daniel in the time of Antiochus Epiphanes - or say about 165 b.c. - the
   fourth kingdom' of Daniel must be the Grecian. But, on the other hand,
   such certainly was not the view entertained by Apocalypts of the year
   165, since the 3d Book of the Sib. Or., which dates from precisely that
   period, not only takes notice of the rising power of Rome, but
   anticipates the destruction of the Grecian Empire by Rome, which in
   turn is to be vanquished by Israel (vv. 175-195; 520-544; 638-807).
   This most important fact would require to be accounted for by the
   opponents of the authenticity of Daniel.

   [852] vv. 652-807.

   [853] I have purposely omitted all references to controverted passages.
   But see Langen, D. Judenth. in Palest. pp. 401 &c.

   [854] ch. i.- xxxvi. and lxxii.-cv.

   [855] The next oldest portion, consisting of the so-called Similitudes
   (ch xxxvii.- xxi.), excepting what are termed the Noachic' parts, dates
   from about the time of Herod the Great.

   [856] Schürer (Lehrb. d. Neutest. Zitg. pp. 534, 535) has, I think,
   consclusively shown that this portion of the Book of Enoch is of Jewish
   authorship, and pre-Christian date. If so, it were deeply interesting
   to follow its account of the Messiah. He appears by the side of the
   Ancient of Days, His face like appearance of a man, and yet so lovely,
   like that of one of the holy Angels. This Son of Man' has, and with Him
   dwells, all righteousness; He reveals the treasures of all that is
   hidden, being chosen by the Lord, is superior to all, and destined to
   subdue and destroy all the powers and kingdoms of wickedness (ch.
   xivi.). Although only revealed at the last, His Name had been named
   before God, before sun or stars were created. He is the staff on which
   the righteous lean, the light of nations, and the hope of all who mourn
   in spirit. All are to bow down before Him, and adore Him, and for this
   He was chosen and hidden with God before the world was created, and
   will continue before Him for ever (ch. xlviii.). This Elect One' is to
   sit on the throne of glory, and dwell among His saints. Heaven and
   earth would abide on the and only the saints would abide on the renewed
   earth (ch. xiv.). He is mighty in all the secrets of righteousness, and
   unrighteousness would flee as a shadow, because His glory lasted from
   eternity to eternity, and His power from generation to generation (ch.
   xlix.). Then would the earth, Hades, and hell give up their dead, and
   Messiah, sitting on His throne, would select and own the just, and open
   up all secrets of wisdom, amidst the universal joy of ransomed earth
   (ch. li., lxi., lxii.).

   [857] lxii. 5.

   [858] For ex. xlviii. 2: lxii. 7; lxix 29.

   [859] cv. 2.

   [860] xc. 38.

   [861] in Ps. xi.

   [862] in Ps. xvii.

   [863] xviii.

   [864] xvii. 5.

   [865] v. 23.

   [866] v. 35.

   [867] v. 36.

   [868] v. 41.

   [869] vv. 42, 43.

   [870] v. 47.

   [871] vv. 25-35.

   [872] In illustration of this tendency we may quote the following
   evidently polemical saying, of R. Abbahu. If any man saith to thee, "I
   am God" he is a liar; "I am the Son of Man," he will at last repent of
   it; "I go up to heaven," hath he said, and shall he not do it?' [or, he
   hath said, and shall not make it good] (Jer. Taan. p. 65 b. line 7 from
   bottom). This R. Abbahu (279-320 of our era) seems to have largely
   engaged in controversy with Jewish Christians. Thus he sought to argue
   against the Sonship of Christ, by commenting, as follows, on Is. xliv.
   6: "I am the first" - because He has no father; "I am the last" -
   because He has no Son; "and beside me there is no God" - because He has
   no brother (equal)' (Shem. R. 29, ed. Warsh. vol. ii. p. 41 a, line 8
   from bottom).

   [873] It is, to say the least, a pity that Mr. Drummond should have
   imagined that the question could be so easily settled on the premises
   which he presents.

   [874] xii. 32; xiii. 26, 52; xiv. 9.

   [875] The 4th Book of Esdras (in our Apocr. II. Esdras) dates from the
   end of the first century of our era - and so does the Apocalypse of
   Baruch.

   [876] lxx.9- lxxiv.

   [877] Ed. Lemb. p. 7 a

   [878] These are: the Throne of Glory, Messiah the King, the Torah,
   (ideal) Israel, the Temple, repentance, and Gehenna.

   [879] Pirqé de R. E. 3; Midr.on Ps. xciii.1; Ps. 54 a; Nedar. 39 b;
   Ber. R. 1; 3 Tanch. on Numb. vii. 14, ed. Warsh. vol. ii Midr. on Ps.
   54 a; Nedar. 39 b; Ber. R. 1; Tanch. on Numb. vii. 14, ed. Warsh. vol.
   ii. p. 56 b, at the bottom.

   [880] In Pirqé de R. El. and the other authorities these seven things
   are: the Torah, Gehenna, Paradise, the Throne of Glory, the Temple,
   repentance, and the Name of the Messiah.

   [881] In Ber. R. six things are mentioned: two actually created (the
   Torah and the Throne of Glory), and four which came into His Mind to
   create them (the Fathers, Israel, the Temple, and the Name of the
   Messiah.

   [882] In Tanch, seven things are enumerated (the six as in Ber. R.,
   with the addition of repentance), and some say: also Paradise and
   Gehenna.'

   [883] Jer. Ber. ii. 4, p. 5 a.

   [884] Sanh. 98 a; comp. also Jerus. Targ. on Ex. xii. 42; Pirqé de R.
   El. 30, and other passages.

   [885] See for example Pesiqta, ed Buber, p. 49 b.

   [886] In that passage the time of Messiah's concealment is calculated
   at forty-five days, from a comparison of Dan. xii. 11 with v. 12.

   [887] Gen.. xxxviii. 1, 2.

   [888] Ber. R. 85, ed. Warsh. p. 151 b.

   [889] Mentioned in 1 Chr. iii. 24 6.

   [890] The comment on this passage is curiously mystical, but clearly
   implies not only the pre-existence, but the superhuman character of the
   Messiah.

   [891] Tanch. Par. To edoth, 14. ed. Warsh. p. 37 b.

   [892] Ber. R. 65 ed. Warsh. p. 114 b; Vayyikra R. 30, ed. W. vol. iii.
   p. 47 a; Pes 5 a.

   [893] Yalkut ii. p. 56 c.

   [894] The whole of this very remarkable passage is given in Appendix
   IX., in the notes on Is. xxv. 8; lx l; lxiv. 4; Jer. xxxi. 8.

   [895] Shem. R. 1, ed. W. vol. ii. p. 5 b; Tanch. Par. Tazrya, 8, ed. W.
   vol. ii. p. 20 a.

   [896] Pesiqta, ed. Buber, p. 49 b; Midr. Ruth. Par. 5, ed. W. p. 43 b.

   [897] Sanh. 98 a.

   [898] Pirqé de R. El. 31, ed. Lemb. p. 38 a.

   [899] Pirqé de R. El. u. s., p. 39 a, close.

   [900] Bemid. R. 18, close of the Phar.

   [901] Ps. lxxii. 16.

   [902] According to the last clause of (English verson) Joel iii. 18
   (Midr. on Eccles. i. 9 ed. Warsh, vol. iv. p. 80 b.)

   [903] Bemid. R. 14, ed. Warsh. p. 55 a.

   [904] Bemid. R. 13.

   [905] Yalkut on Numb. xxvii. 16, vol. i. p. 247 d.

   [906] This is the more noteworthy as, according Sotah 9 b, none in
   Israel was so great as Moses, who was only inferior to the Almighty.

   [907] Tanch., Par. Toledoth 14.

   [908] Midr. Tehill. ed. Warsh. p. 30 b.

   [909] Ps. civ. 1.

   [910] Ps. xciii. 1.

   [911] Ps. xciii. 1.

   [912] Dan. vii. 9.

   [913] Is. lix. 17.

   [914] Is. lix. 17.

   [915] Is. lxiii.

   [916] Is. lxi. 10.

   [917] Ps. xxxi. 19.

   [918] Pesiqta. ed. Buber. pp. 149, a, b.

   [919] Midr. on Ps. xviii. 36, ed. Warsh. p. 27 a.

   [920] Midr. on Ps. cx. 1, ed. Warsh. p. 80 b.

   [921] Ber. R. 23, ed Warsh p. 45 b.

   [922] Gen. xix. 32.

   [923] Ber. R. 51 ed. Warsh. p. 95 a.

   [924] I am, of course, aware that certain Rabbinists explain the
   expression Seed from another place,' as referring to the descent of the
   Messiah from Ruth - a non-Israelite. But if this explanation could be
   offered in reference to the daughters of Lot, it is difficult to see
   its meaning in reference to Eve and the birth of Seth. The connection
   there with the words (Gen. iv. 25), God hath appointed me another
   Seed,' would be the very loosest.

   [925] Ber. R. 2; and 8; Vayyikra R. 14, ed. Warsh. vol. iii. p. 21 b.

   [926] I am surprised, that Castelli (u. s. p. 207) should have
   contended, that the reading in Ber. R. 8 and Vay. R. 14 should be the
   Spirit of Adam.' For (1) the attempted correction gives neither sense,
   nor proper meaning. (2) The passage Ber. R. 1 is not impugned; yet that
   passage is the basis of the other two. (3) Ber. R. 8 must read, The
   Spirit of God moved on the deep - that is, the Spirit of Messiah the
   King,' because the proof-passage is immediately added, and the spirit
   of the Lord shall rest upon Him,' which is a Messianic passage; and
   because, only two lines before the impugned passage, we are told, that
   Gen. i. 26, 1st clause, refers to the spirit of the first man.' The
   latter remark applies also to Vayyikra R. 14, where the context equally
   forbids the proposed correction.

   [927] It would be very interesting to compare with this the statements
   of Philo as to the agency of the Logos in Creation. The subject is very
   well treated by Riehm (Lehrbegr. d. Hebr. Br. pp. 414-420), although I
   cannot agree with all his conclusions.

   [928] Midr. on Lament. i 16, ed Warsh. p. 64 a, last line comp.
   Pesiqta, p. 148 a; Midr. on Ps. xxi. and the very curious concessions
   in a controvesy with a Christian recorded in Sanh. 38 b.

   [929] The whole of this passage, beginning at p. 147 b, is very curious
   and deeply interesting. It would lead too far to quote it, or other
   parallel passages which might be adduced. The passage in the Midrash on
   Lament. i. 16 is also extremely interesting. After the statement quoted
   in the text, there follows a discussion on the names of the Messiah,
   and then the curious story about the Messiah having already been born
   in Bethlehem.

   [930] Dan. vii. 13.

   [931] It will be noticed, that the cummulative argument presented in
   the foregoing pages follows closely that in the first chapter of the
   Epistle to the Hebrews; only, that the latter carries it up to its
   final conclusion, that the Messiah was truly the Son of God, while it
   has been our purpose simply to state, what was the expectation of the
   ancient Synagogue, not what it should have been according to the Old
   Testament.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER VI.
THE NATIVITY OF JESUS THE MESSIAH.

   (St. Matthew i. 25; St. Luke ii. 1-20.)

   SUCH then was the hope of the promise made of God unto the fathers,'
   for which the twelve tribes, instantly serving (God) night and day,'
   longed - with such vividness, that they read it in almost every event
   and promise; with such earnestness, that it ever was the burden of
   their prayers; with such intensity, that many and long centuries of
   disappointment have not quenched it. Its light, comparatively dim in
   days of sunshine and calm, seemed to burn brightest in the dark and
   lonely nights of suffering, as if each gust that swept over Israel only
   kindled it into fresh flame.

   To the question, whether this hope has ever been realised - or rather,
   whether One has appeared Whose claims to the Messiahship have stood the
   test of investigation and of time - impartial history can make only one
   answer. It points to Bethlehem and to Nazareth. If the claims of Jesus
   have been rejected by the Jewish Nation, He has at least, undoubtedly,
   fulfilled one part of the Mission prophetically assigned to the
   Messiah. Whether or not He be the Lion of the tribe of Judah, to Him,
   assuredly, has been the gathering of the nations, and the isles have
   waited for His law. Passing the narrow bounds of obscure Judæa, and
   breaking down the walls of national prejudice and isolation, He has
   made the sublimer teaching of the Old Testament the common possession
   of the world, and founded a great Brotherhood, of which the God of
   Israel is the Father. He alone also has exhibited a life, in which
   absolutely no fault could be found; and promulgated a teaching, to
   which absolutely no exception can be taken. Admittedly, He was the One
   perfect Man - the ideal of humanity, His doctrine the one absolute
   teaching. The world has known none other, none equal. And the world has
   owned it, if not by the testimony of words, yet by the evidence of
   facts. Springing from such a people; born, living, and dying in
   circumstances, and using means, the most unlikely of such results - the
   Man of Nazareth has, by universal consent, been the mightiest Factor in
   our world's history: alike politically, socially, intellectually, and
   morally. If He be not the Messiah, He has at least thus far done the
   Messiah's work. If He be not the Messiah, there has at least been none
   other, before or after Him. If He be not the Messiah, the world has
   not, and never can have, a Messiah.

   To Bethlehem as the birthplace of Messiah, not only Old Testament
   prediction, [932] but the testimony of Rabbinic teaching,
   unhesitatingly pointed. Yet nothing could be imagined more directly
   contrary to Jewish thoughts and feelings - and hence nothing less
   likely to suggest itself to Jewish invention [933] - than the
   circumstances which, according to the Gospel-narrative, brought about
   the birth of the Messiah in Bethlehem. A counting of the people, of
   Census; and that Census taken at the bidding of a heathen Emperor, and
   executed by one so universally hated as Herod, would represent the ne
   plus ultra of all that was most repugnant to Jewish feeling. [934] If
   the account of the circumstances, which brought Joseph and Mary to
   Bethlehem, has no basis in fact, but is a legend invented to locate the
   birth of the Nazarene in the royal City of David, it must be pronounced
   most clumsily devised. There is absolutely nothing to account for its
   origination - either from parallel events in the past, or from
   contemporary expectancy. Why then connect the birth of their Messiah
   with what was most repugnant to Israel, especially if, as the advocates
   of the legendary hypothesis contend, it did not occur at a time when
   any Jewish Census was taken, but ten years previously?

   But if it be impossible rationally to account for any legendary origin
   of the narrative of Joseph and Mary's journey to Bethlehem, the
   historical grounds, on which its accuracy has been impugned, are
   equally insufficient. They resolve themselves into this: that (beyond
   the Gospel-narrative) we have no solid evidence that Cyrenius was at
   that time occupying the needful official position in the East, to order
   such a registration for Herod to carry out. But even this feeble
   contention is by no means historically unassailable. [935] At any rate,
   there are two facts, which render any historical mistake by St. Luke on
   this point extremely difficult to believe. First, he was evidently
   aware of a Census under Cyrenius, ten years later; [936] secondly,
   whatever rendering of St. Luke ii. 2 may be adopted, it will at least
   be admitted, that the intercalated sentence about Cyrenius was not
   necessary for the narrative, and that the writer must have intended
   thereby emphatically to mark a certain event. But an author would not
   be likely to call special attention to a fact, of which he had only
   indistinct knowledge; rather, if it must be mentioned, would he do so
   in the most indefinite terms. This presumption in favour of St. Luke's
   statement is strengthened by the consideration, that such an event as
   the taxing of Judæa must have been so easily ascertainable by him.

   We are, however, not left to the presumptive reasoning just set forth.
   That the Emperor Augustus made registers of the Roman Empire, and of
   subject and tributary states, is now generally admitted. This
   registration - for the purpose of future taxation - would also embrace
   Palestine. Even if no actual order to that effect had been issued
   during the lifetime of Herod, we can understand that he would deem it
   most expedient, both on account of his relations to the Emperor, and in
   view of the probable excitement which a heathen Census would cause in
   Palestine, to take steps for making a registration, and that rather
   according to the Jewish than the Roman manner. This Census, then,
   arranged by Augustus, and taken by Herod in his own manner, was,
   according to St. Luke, first [really] carried out when Cyrenius was
   Governor of Syria,' some years after Herod's death and when Judæa had
   become a Roman province. [937]

   We are now prepared to follow the course of the Gospel-narrative. In
   consequence of the decree of Cæsar Augustus,' Herod directed a general
   registration to be made after the Jewish, rather than the Roman,
   manner. Practically the two would, indeed, in this instance, be very
   similar. According to the Roman law, all country-people were to be
   registered in their own city' - meaning thereby the town to which the
   village or place, where they were born, was attached. In so doing, the
   house and lineage' (the nomen and cognomen) of each were marked. [938]
   According to the Jewish mode of registration, the people would have
   been enrolled according to tribes {hebrew}, families or clans {hebrew},
   and the house of their fathers {hebrew}. But as the ten tribes had not
   returned to Palestine, this could only take place to a very limited
   extent, [939] while it would be easy for each to be registered in his
   own city.' In the case of Joseph and Mary, whose descent from David was
   not only known, but where, for the sake of the unborn Messiah, it was
   most important that this should be distinctly noted, it was natural
   that, in accordance with Jewish law, they should have gone to
   Bethlehem. Perhaps also, for many reasons which will readily suggest
   themselves, Joseph and Mary might be glad to leave Nazareth, and seek,
   if possible, a home in Bethlehem. Indeed, so strong was this feeling,
   that it afterwards required special Divine direction to induce Joseph
   to relinquish this chosen place of residence, and to return into
   Galilee. [940] In these circumstances, Mary, now the wife' of Joseph,
   though standing to him only in the actual relationship of betrothed,'
   [941] would, of course, accompany her husband to Bethlehem.
   Irrespective of this, every feeling and hope in her must have prompted
   such a course, and there is no need to discuss whether Roman or Jewish
   Census-usage required her presence - a question which, if put, would
   have to be answered in the negative.

   The short winter's day was probably closing in, [942] as the two
   travellers from Nazareth, bringing with them the few necessaries of a
   poor Eastern household, neared their journey's end. If we think of
   Jesus as the Messiah from heaven, the surroundings of outward poverty,
   so far from detracting, seem most congruous to His Divine character.
   Earthly splendor would here seem like tawdry tinsel, and the utmost
   simplicity like that clothing of the lilies, which far surpassed all
   the glory of Solomon's court. But only in the East would the most
   absolute simplicity be possible, and yet neither it, nor the poverty
   from which it sprang, necessarily imply even the slightest taint of
   social inferiority. The way had been long and weary - at the very
   least, three days' journey, whatever route had been taken from Galilee.
   Most probably it would be that so commonly followed, from a desire to
   avoid Samaria, along the eastern banks of the Jordan, and by the fords
   of Jericho. [943] Although passing through one of the warmest parts of
   the country, the season of the year must, even in most favorable
   circumstances, have greatly increased the difficulties of such a
   journey. A sense of rest and peace must, almost unconsciously, have
   crept over the travellers when at last they reached the rich fields
   that surrounded the ancient House of Bread,' and, passing through the
   valley which, like an amphitheatre, sweeps up to the twain heights
   along which Bethlehem stretches (2,704 feet above the sea), ascended
   through the terraced vineyards and gardens. Winter though it was, the
   green and silvery foliage of the olive might, even at that season,
   mingle with the pale pink of the almond - nature's early waker' [944] -
   and with the darker coloring of the opening peach-buds. The chaste
   beauty and sweet quiet of the place would recall memories of Boaz, of
   Jesse, and of David. All the more would such thoughts suggest
   themselves, from the contrast between the past and the present. For, as
   the travellers reached the heights of Bethlehem, and, indeed, long
   before, the most prominent object in view must have been the great
   castle which Herod had built, and called after his own name. Perched on
   the highest hill south-east of Bethlehem, it was, at the same time
   magnificent palace, strongest fortress, and almost courtier-city. [945]
   With a sense of relief the travellers would turn from this, to mark the
   undulating outlines of the highland wilderness of Judæa, till the
   horizon was bounded by the mountain-ridges of Tekoa. Through the break
   of the hills eastward the heavy molten surface of the Sea of Judgement
   would appear in view; westward wound the road to Hebron; behind them
   lay the valleys and hills which separated Bethlehem from Jerusalem, and
   concealed the Holy City.

   But for the present such thoughts would give way to the pressing
   necessity of finding shelter and rest. The little town of Bethlehem was
   crowded with those who had come from all the outlying district to
   register their names. Even if the strangers from far-off Galilee had
   been personally acquainted with any one in Bethlehem, who could have
   shown them hospitality, they would have found every house fully
   occupied. The very inn was filled, and the only available space was,
   where ordinarily the cattle were stabled. [946] Bearing in mind the
   simple habits of the East, this scarcely implies, what it would in the
   West; and perhaps the seclusion and privacy from the noisy, chattering
   crowd, which thronged the khan, would be all the more welcome. Scanty
   as these particulars are, even thus much is gathered rather by
   inference than from the narrative itself. Thus early in this history
   does the absence of details, which painfully increases as we proceed,
   remind us, that the Gospels were not intended to furnish a biography of
   Jesus, nor even the materials for it; but had only this twofold object:
   that those who read them might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the
   Son of God,' and that believing they might have life through His Name.'
   [947] The Christian heart and imagination, indeed, long to be able to
   localise the scene of such surpassing importance, and linger with fond
   reverence over that Cave, which is now covered by the Church of the
   Nativity.' It may be - nay, it seems likely - that this, to which the
   most venerable tradition points, was the sacred spot of the world's
   greatest event. [948] But certainly we have not. It is better, that it
   should be so. As to all that passed in the seclusion of that stable' -
   the circumstances of the Nativity,' even its exact time after the
   arrival of Mary (brief as it must have been) - the Gospel-narrative is
   silent. This only is told, that then and there the Virgin-Mother
   brought forth her first-born Son, and wrapped Him in swaddling clothes,
   and laid Him in a manger.' Beyond this announcement of the bare fact,
   Holy Scripture, with indescribable appropriateness and delicacy, draws
   a veil over that most sacred mystery. Two impressions only are left on
   the mind: that of utmost earthly humility, in the surrounding
   circumstances; and that of inward fitness, in the contrast suggested by
   them. Instinctively, reverently, we feel that it is well it should have
   been so. It best befits the birth of the Christ - if He be what the New
   Testament declares Him.

   On the other hand, the circumstances just noted afford the strongest
   indirect evidence of the truth of this narrative. For, if it were the
   outcome of Jewish imagination, where is the basis for it in
   contemporary expectation? Would Jewish legend have ever presented its
   Messiah as born in a stable, to which chance circumstances had
   consigned His Mother? The whole current of Jewish opinion would run in
   the contrary direction. The opponents of the authenticity of this
   narrative are bound to face this. Further, it may safely be asserted,
   that no Apocryphal or legendary narrative of such a (legendary) event
   would have been characterised by such scantiness, or rather absence, of
   details. For, the two essential features, alike of legend and of
   tradition, are, that they ever seek to surround their heroes with a
   halo of glory, and that they attempt to supply details, which are
   otherwise wanting. And in both these respects a more sharply-marked
   contrast could scarcely be presented, than in the Gospel-narrative.

   But as we pass from the sacred gloom of the cave out into the night,
   its sky all aglow with starry brightness, its loneliness is peopled,
   and its silence made vocal from heaven. There is nothing now to
   conceal, but much to reveal, though the manner of it would seem
   strangely incongruous to Jewish thinking. And yet Jewish tradition may
   here prove both illustrative and helpful. That the Messiah was to be
   born in Bethlehem, [949] was a settled conviction. Equally so was the
   belief, that He was to be revealed from Migdal Eder, the tower of the
   flock.' [950] This Migdal Eder was not the watchtower for the ordinary
   flocks which pastured on the barren sheepground beyond Bethlehem, but
   lay close to the town, on the road to Jerusalem. A passage in the
   Mishnah [951] leads to the conclusion, that the flocks, which pastured
   there, were destined for Temple-sacrifices, [952] and, accordingly,
   that the shepherds, who watched over them, were not ordinary shepherds.
   The latter were under the ban of Rabbinism, [953] on account of their
   necessary isolation from religious ordinances, and their manner of
   life, which rendered strict legal observance unlikely, if not
   absolutely impossible. The same Mishnic passage also leads us to infer,
   that these flocks lay out all the year round, since they are spoken of
   as in the fields thirty days before the Passover - that is, in the
   month of February, when in Palestine the average rainfall is nearly
   greatest. [954] Thus, Jewish tradition in some dim manner apprehended
   the first revelation of the Messiah from that Migdal Eder, where
   shepherds watched the Temple-flocks all the year round. Of the deep
   symbolic significance of such a coincidence, it is needless to speak.

   It was, then, on that wintry night' of the 25th of December, [955] that
   shepherds watched the flocks destined for sacrificial services, in the
   very place consecrated by tradition as that where the Messiah was to be
   first revealed. Of a sudden came the long-delayed, unthought-of
   announcement. Heaven and earth seemed to mingle, as suddenly an Angel
   stood before their dazzled eyes, while the outstreaming glory of the
   Lord seemed to enwrap them, as in a mantle of light. [956] Surprise,
   awe, fear would be hushed into calm and expectancy, as from the Angel
   they heard, that what they saw boded not judgment, but ushered in to
   waiting Israel the great joy of those good tidings which he brought:
   that the long-promised Saviour, Messiah, Lord, was born in the City of
   David, and that they themselves might go and see, and recognize Him by
   the humbleness of the circumstances surrounding His Nativity.

   It was, as if attendant angels had only waited the signal. As, when the
   sacrifice was laid on the altar, the Temple-music burst forth in three
   sections, each marked by the blast of the priests' silver trumpets, as
   if each Psalm were to be a Tris-Hagion; [957] so, when the Herald-Angel
   had spoken, a multitude of heaven's host [958] stood forth to hymn the
   good tidings he had brought. What they sang was but the reflex of what
   had been announced. It told in the language of praise the character,
   the meaning, the result, of what had taken place. Heaven took up the
   strain of glory;' earth echoed it as peace;' it fell on the ears and
   hearts of men as good pleasure:'

   Glory to God in the highest -

   And upon earth peace -

   Among men good pleasure! [959]

   Only once before had the words of the Angels' hymn fallen upon mortal's
   ears, when, to Isaiah's rapt vision, Heaven's high Temple had opened,
   and the glory of Jehovah swept its courts, almost breaking down the
   trembling posts that bore its boundary gates. Now the same glory
   enwrapt the shepherds on Bethlehem's plains. Then the Angels' hymn had
   heralded the announcement of the Kingdom coming; now that of the King
   come. Then it had been the Tris-Hagion of prophetic anticipation; now
   that of Evangelic fulfilment.

   The hymn had ceased; the light faded out of the sky; and the shepherds
   were alone. But the Angelic message remained with them; and the sign,
   which was to guide them to the Infant Christ, lighted their rapid way
   up the terraced height to where, at the entering of Bethlehem, the lamp
   swinging over the hostelry directed them to the strangers of the house
   of David, who had come from Nazareth. Though it seems as if, in the
   hour of her utmost need, the Virgin, Mother had not been ministered to
   by loving hands, [960] yet what had happened in the stable must soon
   have become known in the Khan. Perhaps friendly women were still
   passing to and fro on errands of mercy, when the shepherds reached the
   stable.' [961] There they found, perhaps not what they had expected,
   but as they had been told. The holy group only consisted of the humble
   Virgin-Mother, the lowly carpenter of Nazareth, and the Babe laid in
   the manger. What further passed we know not, save that, having seen it
   for themselves, the shepherds told what had been spoken to them about
   this Child, to all around [962] - in the stable' in the fields,
   probably also in the Temple, to which they would bring their flocks,
   thereby preparing the minds of a Simeon, of an Anna, and of all them
   that looked for salvation in Israel. [963]

   And now the hush of wondering expectancy fell once more on all, who
   heard what was told by the shepherds - this time not only in the
   hill-country of Judæa, but within the wider circle that embraced
   Behtlehem and the Holy City. And yet it seemed all so sudden, so
   strange. That such slender thread, as the feeble throb of an
   Infant-life, the salvation of the world should hang - and no special
   care watch over its safety, no better shelter be provided it than a
   stable,' no other cradle than a manger! And still it is ever so. On
   what slender thread has the continued life of the Church often seemed
   to hang; on what feeble throbbing that of every child of God - with no
   visible outward means to ward off danger, no home of comfort, no rest
   of ease. But, Lo, children are Jehovah's heritage!' - and: So giveth He
   to His beloved in his sleep!' [964]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [932] Micah v. 2.

   [933] The advocates of the mythical theory have not answered, not even
   faced or understood, what to us seems, on their hypothesis, an
   insuperable difficulty. Granting, that Jewish expectancy would suggest
   the birth of Jesus at Bethlehem, why invent such circumstances to bring
   Mary to Bethlehem? Keim may be right in saying: The belief in the birth
   at Bethlehem originated very simply' (Leben Jesu i. 2, p. 393); but all
   the more complicated and inexplicable is the origination of the legend,
   which accounts for the journey thither of Mary and Joseph.

   [934] In evidence of these feelings, we have the account of Josephus of
   the consequences of the taxation of Cyrenius (Ant. xviii. 1. 1. Comp.
   Acts v. 37).

   [935] The arguments on what may be called the orthodox side have, from
   different points of view, been so often and well stated - latterly by
   Wieseler, Huschke, Zumpt, and Steinmeyer - and on the other side almost
   ad nauseam by negative critics of every school, that it seems
   unnecessary to go again over them. The reader will find the whole
   subject stated by Canon Cook, whose views we substantially adopt, in
   the Speaker's Commentary' (N.T. i. pp. 326-329). The reasoning of
   Mommsen (Res gestae D. Aug. pp. 175, 176) does not seem to me to affect
   the view taken in the text.

   [936] Comp. Acts v. 37.

   [937] For the textual explanation we again refer to Canon Cook, only we
   would mark, with Steinmeyer, that the meaning of the expression geneto,
   in St. Luke ii. 2, is determined by the similar use of it in Acts xi.
   28, where what was predicted is said to have actually taken place
   (gneto) at the time of Claudius Cæsar.

   [938] Comp. Huschke. Ueber d. z. Zeit d. Geb. J. C. gehalt. Census pp.
   119, 120. Most critics have written very confusedly on this point.

   [939] The reader will now be able to appreciate the value of Keim's
   objections against such a Census, as involving a wahre Volkswanderung'
   (!), and being eine Sache der Unmöglichkeit.'

   [940] St. Matt ii. 22.

   [941] St. Luke ii. 5.

   [942] This, of course, is only a conjecture; but I call it probable,'
   partly because one would naturally so arrange a journey of several
   days, to make its stages as slow and easy as possible, and partly from
   the circumstance, that, on their arrival, they found the khan full,
   which would scarcely have been the case had they reached Bethlehem
   early in the day.

   [943] Comp. the account of the roads, inns, &c. in the History of the
   Jewish Nation,' p. 275; and the chapter on Travelling in Palestine,' in
   Sketches of Jewish Social Life in the Days of Christ.'

   [944] The almond is called, in Hebrew, {hebrew}, the waker,' from the
   word to be awake.' It is quite possible, that many of the earliest
   spring flowers already made the landscape bright.

   [945] Jos. Ant. xiv. 13. 9; xv. 9. 4; War. i. 13. 8:21, 10.

   [946] Dr. Geikie indeed feels sure' that the katluma was not an inn,
   but a guest-chamber, because the word is used in that sense in St. Mark
   xiv. 14, Luke xxii. 11. But this inference is critically untenable. The
   Greek word is of very wide application, and means (as Schleusner puts
   it) omnis locus quieti aptus.' In the LXX. katluma is the equivalent of
   not less than five Hebrew words, which have widely different meanings.
   In the LXX. rendering of Ex. iv. 24 it is used for the Hebrew {hebrew}
   which certainly cannot mean a guest-chamber, but an inn. No one could
   imagine that. If private hospitality had been extended to the
   Virgin-Mother, she would have been left in such circumstances in a
   stable. The same term occurs in Aramaic form, in Rabbinic writings, as
   {hebrew} or {hebrew}={hebrew} katluma, an inn. Delitzsch, in his Hebrew
   N.T., uses the more common {hebrew}. Bazaars and markets were also held
   in those hostelries; animals killed, and meat sold there; also wine and
   cider; so that they were a much more public place of resort than might
   at first be imagined. Comp. Herzfeld. Handelsgesch. p. 325.

   [947] St. John xx. 31; comp. St. Luke i. 4.

   [948] Perhaps the best authenticated of all local traditions is that
   which fixes on this cave as the place of the Nativity. The evidence in
   its favour is well given by Dr. Farrar in his Life of Christ.' Dean
   Stanley, however, and others, have questioned it.

   [949] In the curious story of His birth, related in the Jer. Talmud
   (Ber. ii. 3), He is said to have been born in the royal castle of
   Bethlehem;' while in the parallel narrative in the Midr. on Lament. i.
   16, ed. W. p. 64 b) the somewhat mysterious expression is used
   {hebrew}. But we must keep in view the Rabbinic statement that, even if
   a castle falls down, it is still called a castle (Yalkut, vol. ii. p.
   60 b).

   [950] Targum Pseudo-Jon. On Gen. xxxv. 21.

   [951] Shek. vii. 4.

   [952] In fact the Mishnah (Baba K. vii. 7) expressly forbids the
   keeping of flocks throughout the land of Israel, except in the
   wilderness - and the only flocks otherwise kept, would be those for the
   Temple-services (Baba K. 80 a).

   [953] This disposes of an inapt quotation (from Delitzsch) by Dr.
   Geikie. No one could imagine, that the Talmudic passages in question
   could apply to such shepherds as these.

   [954] The mean of 22 seasons in Jerusalem amounted to 4.718 inches in
   December, 5.479 in January, and 5.207 in February (see a very
   interesting paper by Dr. Chaplin in Quart. Stat. of Pal. Explor. Fund,
   January, 1883). For 1876-77 we have these startling figures: mean for
   December, .490; for January, 1.595; for February, 8.750 - and,
   similarly, in other years. And so we read: Good the year in which
   Tebheth (December) is without rain' (Taan. 6 b). Those who have copied
   Lightfoot's quotations about the flocks not lying out during the winter
   months ought, at least, to have known that the reference in the
   Talmudic passages is expressly to the flocks which pastured in the
   wilderness' ({hebrew}). But even so, the statement, as so many others
   of the kind, is not accurate. For, in the Talmud two opinions are
   expressed. According to one, the Midbariyoth,' or animals of the
   wilderness,' are those which go to the open at the Passovertime, and
   return at the first rains (about November); while, on the other hand,
   Rabbi maintains, and, as it seems, more authoritatively, that the
   wilderness-flocks remain in the open alike in the hottest days and in
   the rainy season - i.e. all the year round (Bezah 40 a). Comp. also
   Tosephta Bezah iv. 6. A somewhat different explanation is given in Jer.
   Bezah 63 b.

   [955] There is no adequate reason for questioning the historical
   accuracy of this date. The objections generally made rest on grounds,
   which seem to me historically untenable. The subject has been fully
   discussed in an article by Cassel in Herzog's Real. Ency. xvii. pp.
   588-594. But a curious piece of evidence comes to us from a Jewish
   source. In the addition to the Megillath Taanith (ed. Warsh. p. 20 a),
   the 9th Tebheth is marked as a fast day, and it is added, that the
   reason for this is not stated. Now, Jewish chronologists have fixed on
   that day as that of Christ's birth, and it is remarkable that, between
   the years 500 and 816 a.d. the 25th of December fell no less than
   twelve times on the 9th Tebheth. If the 9th Tebheth, or 25th December,
   was regarded as the birthday of Christ, we can understand the
   concealment about it. Comp. Zunz, Ritus d. Synag. Gottesd. p. 126.

   [956] In illustration we may here quote Shem. R. 2 (ed. W. vol. ii. p.
   8 a), where it is said that, wherever Michael appears, there also is
   the glory of the Shekhinah. In the same section we read, in reference
   to the appearance in the bush, that, at first only one Angel came,' who
   stood in the burning bush, and after that the Shekhinah came, and spoke
   to Moses from out the bush. (It is a curious illustration of Acts ix.
   7, that Moses alone is said in Jewish tradition to have seen the
   vision. but not the men who were with him.) Wetstein gives an erroneous
   reference to a Talmudic statement, to the effect that, at the birth of
   Moses, the room was filled with heavenly light. The statement really
   occurs in Sotah 12 a; Shem. R. 1; Yalkut i. 51 c. This must be the
   foundation of the Christian legend, that the cave, in which Christ was
   born, was filled with heavenly light. Similarly, the Romish legend
   about the Virgin Mother not feeling the pangs of maternity is derived
   from the Jewish legend, which asserts the same of the mother of Moses.
   The same authority maintains, that the birth of Moses remained unknown
   for three months, because he was a child of seven months. There are
   other legends about the sinlessness of Moses' father, and the
   maidenhood of his mother (at 103 years), which remind us of Christian
   traditions.

   [957] According to tradition, the three blasts symbolically proclaimed
   the Kingdom of God, the providence of God, and the final judgment.

   [958] Curiously enough, the word strati is Hebraised in the same
   connection {hebrew}. See Yalkut on Ps. xlv. (vol. ii. p. 105 a, about
   the middle).

   [959] I have unhesitatingly retained the reading of the textus
   receptus. The arguments in its favor are sufficiently set forth by
   Canon Cook in his Revised Version of the First Three Gospels,' pp. 27,
   32.

   [960] This appears to me implied in the emphatic statement, that Mary -
   as I gather, herself - wrapped Him in swaddling clothes' (St. Luke ii.
   7, 12). Otherwise the remark would seem needless and meaningless.

   [961] It seems difficult to understand how, on Dr. Geikie's theory, the
   shepherds could have found the Infant-Saviour, since, manifestly, they
   could not during that night have roused every household in Bethlehem,
   to inquire whether any child had been born among their guests.

   [962] The term diagnorzo more than to make known abroad.' Wahl renders
   it ultro citroquenarroh;' Schleusner: divulgo aliquid ut aliis
   innotescat, spargo rumorem.'

   [963] This may have prepared not only those who welcomed Jesus on His
   presentation in the Temple, but filled many others with expectancy.

   [964] The following remarkable extract from the Jerusalem Targum on Ex.
   xii. 42 may interest the reader: - It is a night to be observed and
   exalted.... Four nights are there written in the Book of Memorial.
   Night first: when the Memra of Jehovah was revealed upon the world for
   its creation; when the world was without form and void, and darkness
   was spread upon the face of the deep, and the Memra of Jehovah
   illuminated and made it light; and He called it the first night. Night
   second: when the Memra of Jehovah was revealed unto Abraham between the
   divided pieces; when Abraham was a hundred years, and Sarah was ninety
   years, and to confirm thereby that which the Scripture saith - Abraham
   a hundred years, can he beget? and Sarah, ninety years old, can she
   bear? Was not our father Isaac thirty-seven years old at the time he
   was offered upon the altar? Then the heavens were bowed down and
   brought low, and Isaac saw their foundations, and his eyes were blinded
   owing to that sight; and He called it the second night. The third
   night: when the Memra of Jehovah was revealed upon the Egyptians, at
   the dividing of the night; His right hand slew the first-born of the
   Egyptians, and His right hand spared the first-born of Israel; to
   fulfil what the Scripture hath said, Israel is My first-born
   well-beloved son. And He called it the third night. Night the fourth:
   when the end of the world will be accomplished, that it might be
   dissolved, the bands of wickedness destroyed, and the iron yoke broken.
   Moses came forth from the midst of the desert, and the King Messiah
   from the midst of Rome. This one shall lead at the head of a Cloud, and
   that one shall lead at the head of a Cloud; and the Memra of Jehovah
   will lead between both, and they two shall come as one (Cachada).' (For
   explan. see vol. ii. p. 100, note.)
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER VII.
THE PURIFICATION OF THE VIRGIN AND THE PRESENTATION IN THE TEMPLE

   (St. Luke ii. 21-38.)

   FOREMOST amongst those who, wondering, had heard what the shepherds
   told, was she whom most it concerned, who laid it up deepest in her
   heart, and brought to it treasured stores of memory. It was the Mother
   of Jesus. These many months, all connected with this Child could never
   have been far away form her thoughts. And now that He was hers yet not
   hers - belonged, yet did not seem to belong, to her - He would be the
   more dear to her Mother-heart for what made Him so near, and yet parted
   Him so far from her. And upon all His history seemed to lie such
   wondrous light, that she could only see the path behind, so far as she
   had trodden it; while upon that on which she was to move, was such
   dazzling brightness, that she could scare look upon the present, and
   dared not gaze towards the future.

   At the very outset of this history, and increasingly in its course, the
   question meets us, how, if the Angelic message to the Virgin was a
   reality, and her motherhood so supernatural, she could have been
   apparently so ignorant of what was to come - nay, so often have even
   misunderstood it? Strange, that she should have pondered in her heart'
   the shepherd's account; stranger, that afterwards she should have
   wondered at His lingering in the Temple among Israel's teachers;
   strangest, that, at the very first of His miracles, a mother's fond
   pride should have so harshly broken in upon the Divine melody of His
   work, by striking a keynote so different from that, to which His life
   had been set; or that afterwards, in the height of his activity, loving
   fears, if not doubts, should have prompted her to interrupt, what
   evidently she had not as yet comprehended in the fulness of its
   meaning. Might we not rather have expected, that the Virgin-Mother from
   the inception of this Child's life would have understood, that He was
   truly the Son of God? The question, like so many others, requires only
   to be clearly stated, to find its emphatic answer. For, had it been so
   His history, His human life, of which every step is of such importance
   to mankind, would not have been possible. Apart from all thoughts of
   the deeper necessity, both as regarded His Mission and all the
   salvation of the world, of a true human development of gradual
   consciousness and personal life, Christ could not, in any true sense,
   have been subject to His Parents, if they had fully understood that He
   was Divine; nor could He, in that case, have been watched, as He grew
   in wisdon and in favour with God and men.' Such knowledge would have
   broken the bond of His Humanity to ours, by severing that which bound
   Him as a child to His mother. We could not have become His brethren,
   had He not been truly the Virgin's Son. The mystery of the Incarnation
   would have been needless and fruitless, had His humanity not been
   subject to all its right and ordinary conditions. And, applying the
   same principle more widely, we can thus, in some measure, understand
   why the mystery of His Divinity had to be kept while He was on earth.
   Had it been otherwise, the thought of His Divinity would have proved so
   all-absorbing, as to render impossible that of His Humanity, with all
   its lessons. The Son of God Most High, Whom they worshipped, could
   never have been the loving Man, with Whom they could hold such close
   converse. The bond which bound the Master to His disciples - the Son of
   Man to humanity - would have been dissolved; His teaching as a Man, the
   Incarnation, and the Tabernacling among men, in place of the former Old
   Testament Revelation from heaven, would have become wholly impossible.
   In short, one, and that the distinctive New Testament, element in our
   salvation would have been taken away. At the beginning of His life He
   would have anticipated the lessons of its end - nay, not those of His
   Death only, but of His Resurrection and Ascension, and of the coming of
   the Holy Ghost.

   In all this we have only been taking the subjective, not the objective,
   view of the question; considered the earthward, not the heavenward,
   aspect of His life. The latter, though very real, lies beyond our
   present horizon. Not so the question as to the development of the
   Virgin-Mother's spiritual knowledge. Assuming her to have occupied, in
   the fullest sense, the standpoint of Jewish Messianic expectancy, and
   remembering, also, that she was so highly favoured' of God, still,
   there was not as yet anything, nor could there be for many years, to
   lead her beyond what might be called the utmost height of Jewish
   belief. On the contrary, there was much connected with His true
   Humanity to keep her back. For narrow as, to our retrospective
   thinking, the boundary-line seems between Jewish belief and that in the
   hypostatic union of the two Natures, the passage from the one to the
   other represented such tremendous mental revolution, as to imply direct
   Divine teaching. [965] An illustrative instance will prove this better
   than argument. We read, in a commentary on the opening words of Gen.
   xv. 18, [966] that when God made the covenant with Abram, He revealed
   to him both this Olam (dispensation) and the Olam to come,' which
   latter expression is correctly explained as referring to the days of
   the Messiah. Jewish tradition, therefore, here asserts exactly what
   Jesus stated in these words: Your father Abraham rejoiced to see My
   day; and he saw it, and was glad.' [967] Yet we know what storm of
   indignation the enunciation of it called forth among the Jews!

   Thus it was, that every event connected with the Messianic
   manifestation of Jesus would come to the Virgin-Mother as a fresh
   discovery and a new surprise. Each event, as it took place, stood
   isolated in her mind; not as part of a whole which she would
   anticipate, nor as only one link in a chain; but as something quite by
   itself. She knew the beginning, and she knew the end; but she knew not
   the path which led from the one to the other; and each step in it was a
   new revelation. Hence it was, that she so carefully treasured in her
   heart every new fact, [968] piecing each to the other, till she could
   read from it the great mystery that He, Whom Incarnate she had borne,
   was, indeed, the Son of the living God. And as it was natural, so it
   was well that it should be so. For, thus only could she truly, because
   self-unconsciously, as a Jewish woman and mother, fulfil all the
   requirements of the Law, alike as regarded herself and her Child

   The first of these was Circumcision, representing voluntary subjection
   to the conditions of the Law, and acceptance of the obligations, but
   also of the privileges, of the Covenant between God and Abraham and his
   seed. Any attempt to show the deep siginificance of such a rite in the
   case of Jesus, could only weaken the impression which the fact itself
   conveys. The ceremony took place, as in all ordinary circumstances, on
   the eight day, when the Child received the Angel-given name Jeshua
   (Jesus). Two other legal ordinances still remained to be observed. The
   firstborn son of every household was, according to the Law, to be
   redeemed' of the priest at the price of five shekels of the Sanctuary.
   [969] Rabbinic casuistry here added many needless, and even repulsive,
   details. The following, however, are of practical interest. The
   earliest period of presentation was thirty-one days after birth so as
   to make the legal month quite complete. The child must have been the
   firstborn of his mother (according to some writers, of his father
   also); [970] neither father nor mother [971] must be of Levitic
   descent; and the child must be free from all such bodily blemishes as
   would have disqualified him for the priesthood - or, as it was
   expressed: the firstborn for the priesthood.' It was a thing much
   dreaded, that the child should die before his redemption; but if his
   father died in the interval, the child had to redeem himself when of
   age. As the Rabbinic law expressly states, that the shekels were to be
   of Tyrian weight,' [972] the value of the redemption money' would
   amount to about ten or twelve shillings. The redemption could be made
   from any priest, and attendance in the Temple was not requisite. It was
   otherwise with the purification' of the mother. [973] The Rabbinic law
   fixed this at forty-one days after the birth of a son, and eighty-one
   after that of a daughter, [974] so as to make the Biblical terms quite
   complete. [975] But it might take place any time later - notably, when
   attendance on any of the great feasts brought a family to Jerusalem.
   Thus, we read of cases when a mother would offer several sacrifices of
   purification at the same time. [976] But, indeed, the woman was not
   required to be personally present at all, when her offering was
   presented, or, rather (as we shall see), provided for - say, by the
   representatives of the laity, who daily took part in the services for
   the various districts from which they came. This also is specially
   provided for in the Tulmud. [977] But mothers who were within
   convenient distance of the Temple, and especially the more earnest
   among them, would naturally attend personally in the Temple; [978] and
   in such cases, when practicable, the redemption of the firstborn, and
   the purification of his mother, would be combined. Such was undoubtedly
   the case with the Virgin-Mother and her Son.

   For this twofold purpose the Holy Family went up to the Temple, when
   the prescribed days were completed. [979] The ceremony at the
   redemption of a firstborn son was, no doubt, more simple than that at
   present in use. It consisted of the formal presentation of the child to
   the priest, accompanied by two short benedictions,' the one for the law
   of redemption, the other for the gift of a firstborn son, after which
   the redemption money was paid. [980] Most solemn, as in such a place,
   and remembering its symbolic significance as the expression of God's
   claim over each family in Israel, must this rite have been.

   As regards the rite at the purification of the mother, the scantiness
   of information has led to serious misstatements. Any comparison with
   our modern churching' of women [981] is inapplicable, since the latter
   consists of thanksgiving, and the former primarily of a sin-offering
   for the Levitical defilement symbolically attaching to the beginning of
   life, and a burnt-offering, that marked the restoration of communion
   with God. Besides, as already stated, the sacrifice for purification
   might be brought in the absence of the mother. Similar mistakes prevail
   as to the rubric. It is not case, as generally stated, that the woman
   was sprinkled with blood, and then pronounced clean by the priest, or
   that prayers were offered on the occasion. [982] The service simply
   consisted of the statutory sacrifice. This was what, in ecclesiastical
   language, was termed an offering oleh veyored, that is, ascending and
   descending,' according to the means of the offerer. The sin-offering
   was, in all cases, a turtle-dove or a young pigeon. But, while the more
   wealthy brought a lamb for a burnt-offering the poor might substitute
   for it a turtle-dove, or a young pigeon. [983] The ribric directed that
   the neck of the sin-offering was to be broken, but the head not wholly
   severed; that some of the blood should be sprinkled at the
   south-western angle of the altar, [984] below the red line, [985] which
   ran round the middle of the altar, and that the rest should be poured
   out at the base of the altar. The whole of the flesh belonged to the
   priests, and had to be eaten within the enclosure of the Sanctuary. The
   rubric for the burnt-offering of a turtle-dove or a young pigeon was
   somewhat more intricate. [986] The substitution of the latter for a
   young lamb was expressly designated the poor's offering.' And rightly
   so, since, while a lamb would probably cost about three shillings, the
   average value of a pair of turtle-doves, for both the sin-and
   burnt-offering, would be about eightpence, [987] and on one occasion
   fell so low as twopence. The Temple-price of the meat-and
   drink-offerings was fixed once a month; and special officials
   instructed the intending offerers, and provided them with what was
   needed. [988] There was also a special superintendent of turtle-doves
   and pigeons,' required for certain purifications, and the holder of
   that office is mentioned with praise in the Mishnah. [989] Much,
   indeed, depended upon his uprightness. For, at any rate as regarded
   those who brought the poor's offering, the purchasers of pigeons or
   turtle-doves would, as a rule, have to deal with him. In the Court of
   the Women there were thirteen trumpet-shaped chests for pecuniary
   contributions, called trumpets.' [990] Into the third of these they who
   brought the poor's offering, like the Virgin-Mother, were to drop the
   price of the sacrifices which were needed for their purification. [991]
   As we infer, [992] the superintending priest must have been stationed
   here, alike to inform the offerer of the price of the turtle-doves, and
   to see that all was in order. For, the offerer of the poor's offering
   would not require to deal directly with the sacrificing priest. At a
   certain time in the day this third chest was opened, and half of its
   contents applied to burnt, the other half to sin-offerings. Thus
   sacrifices were provided for a corresponding number of those who were
   to be purified, without either shaming the poor, needlessly disclosing
   the character of impurity, or causing unnecessary bustle and work.
   Though this mode of procedure could, of course, not be obligatory, it
   would, no doubt, be that generally followed.

   We can now, in imagination, follow the Virgin-Mother in the Temple.
   [993] Her child had been given up to the Lord, and received back from
   Him. She had entered the Court of the Women, probably by the Gate of
   the Women,' [994] on the north side, and deposited the price of her
   sacrifices in Trumpet No. 3, which was close to the raised dais or
   gallery where the women worshipped, apart from the men. And now the
   sound of the organ, which announced throughout the vast
   Temple-buildings that the incense was about to be kindled on the Golden
   Altar, summoned those who were to be purified. The chief of the
   ministrant lay-representatives of Israel on duty (the so-called
   station-men') ranged those, who presented themselves before the Lord as
   offerers of special sacrifices, within the wickets on either side the
   great Nicanor Gate, at the top of the fifteen steps which led up from
   the Court of the Women to that of Israel. It was, as if they were to be
   brought nearest to the Sanctuary; as if theirs were to be specially the
   prayers' that rose in the cloud of incense from the Golden Altar; as if
   for them specially the sacrifices were laid on the Altar of
   Burnt-offering; as if theirs was a larger share of the benediction
   which, spoken by the lips of the priests, seemed like Jehovah's answer
   to the prayers of the people; theirs especially the expression of joy
   symbolised in the drink-offering, and the hymn of praise whose
   Tris-Hagion filled the Temple. From where they stood they could see it
   all, [995] share in it, rejoice in it. And now the general service was
   over, and only those remained who brought special sacrifices, or who
   lingered near them that had such, or whose loved abode was ever in the
   Temple. The purification-service, with such unspoken prayer and praise
   as would be the outcome of a grateful heart, [996] was soon ended, and
   they who had shared in it were Levitically clean. Now all stain was
   removed, and, as the Law put it, they might again partake of sacred
   offerings.

   And in such sacred offering, better than any of which priest's family
   had ever partaken, was the Virgin-Mother immediately to share. It has
   been observed, that by the side of every humiliation connected with the
   Humanity of the Messiah, the glory of His Divinity was also made to
   shine forth. The coincidences are manifestly undesigned on the part of
   the Evangelic writers, and hence all the more striking. Thus, if he was
   born of the humble Maiden of Nazareth, an Angel announced His birth; if
   the Infant-Saviour was cradled in a manger, the shining host of heaven
   hymned His Advent. And so afterwards - if He hungered and was tempted
   in the wilderness, Angels ministered to Him, even as an Angel
   strengthened Him in the agony of the garden. If He submitted to
   baptism, the Voice and vision from heaven attested His Sonship; if
   enemies threatened. He could miraculously pass through them; if the
   Jews assailed, there was the Voice of God to glorify Him; if He was
   nailed to the cross, the sun craped his brightness, and earth quaked;
   if He was laid in the tomb, Angels kept its watches, and heralded His
   rising. And so, when now the Mother of Jesus, in her humbleness, could
   only bring the poor's offering,' the witness to the greatness of Him
   Whom she had borne was not wanting. A eucharistic offering' - so to
   speak - was brought, the record of which is the more precious that
   Rabbinic writings make no allusion to the existence of the party, whose
   representatives we here meet. Yet they were the true outcome of the
   spirit of the Old Testament, and, as such, at this time, the special
   recipients of the Spirit' of the Old Testament.

   The parents' of Jesus had brought Him into the Temple for presentation
   and redemption, when they were met by one, whose venerable figure must
   have been well known in the city and the Sanctuary. Simeon combined the
   three characteristics of Old Testament piety: Justice,' as regarded his
   relation and bearing to God and man; [997] fear of God,' [998] in
   opposition to the boastful self-righteousness of Pharisaism; and, above
   all, longing expectancy of the near fulfilment of the great promises,
   and that in their spiritual import as the Consolation of Israel.' [999]
   The Holy Spirit was upon him; and by that same Spirit [1000] the
   gracious Divine answer to his heart's longing had been communicated
   him. And now it was as had been promised him. Coming in the Spirit'
   into the Temple, just as His parents were bringing the Infant Jesus, he
   took Him into his arms, and burst into rapt thanksgiving. Now, indeed,
   had God fulfilled His word. He was not to see death, till he had seen
   the Lord's Christ. Now did his Lord dismiss' him in peace' [1001] -
   release him [1002] in blessed comfort from work and watch - since he
   had actually seen that salvation, [1003] so long preparing for a
   waiting weary world: a glorious light, Whose rising would light up
   heathen darkness, and be the outshining glory around Israel's mission.
   With this Infant in his arms, it was as if he stood on the
   mountain-height of prophetic vision, and watched the golden beams of
   sunrise far away over the isles of the Gentiles, and then gathering
   their full glow over his own beloved land and people. There was nothing
   Judiac - quite the contrary: only what was of the Old Testament - in
   what he first said. [1004]

   But his unexpected appearance, the more unexpected deed and words, and
   that most unexpected form in which what was said of the Infant Christ
   was presented to their minds, filled the hearts of His parents with
   wonderment. And it was, as if their silent wonderment had been an
   unspoken question, to which the answer now came in words of blessing
   from the aged watcher. Mystic they seemed, yet prophetic. But now it
   was the personal, or rather the Judaic, aspect which, in broken
   utterances, was set before the Virgin-Mother - as if the whole history
   of the Christ upon earth were passing in rapid vision before Simeon.
   That Infant, now again in the Virgin-Mother's arms: It was to be a
   stone of decision; a foundation and corner-stone, [1005] for fall or
   for uprising; a sign spoken against; the sword of deep personal sorrow
   would pierce the Mother's heart; and so to the terrible end, when the
   veil of externalism which had so long covered the hearts of Israel's
   leaders would be rent, and the deep evil of their thoughts [1006] laid
   bare. Such, as regarded Israel, was the history of Jesus, from His
   Baptism to the Cross; and such is still the history of Jesus, as ever
   present to the heart of the believing, loving Church.

   Nor was Simeon's the only hymn of praise on that day. A special
   interest attaches to her who, coming that very moment, responded in
   praise to God [1007] for the pledge she saw of the near redemption. A
   kind of mystery seems to invest this Anna (Channah). A widow, whose
   early desolateness had been followed by a long life of solitary
   mourning; one of those in whose home the tribal genealogy had been
   preserved. [1008]   We infer from this, and from the fact that it was
   that of a tribe which had not returned to Palestine, that hers was a
   family of some distinction. Curiously enough, the tribe of Asher alone
   is celebrated in tradition for the beauty of its women, and their
   fitness to be wedded to High-Priest or King. [1009]

   But Anna had better claim to distinction than family-descent, or long,
   faithful memory of brief home-joys. These many years she had spent in
   the Sanctuary, [1010] and spent in fasting and prayer - yet not of that
   self-righteous, self-satisfied kind which was of the essence of popular
   religion. Nor, as to the Pharisees around, was it the Synagogue which
   was her constant and loved resort; but the Temple, with its symbolic
   and unspoken worship, which Rabbinic self-assertion and rationalism
   were rapidly superseding, and for whose services, indeed, Rabbinism
   could find no real basis. Nor yet were fasting and prayer' to her the
   all-in-all of religion, sufficient in themselves; sufficient also
   before God. Deepest in her soul was longing waiting for the redemption'
   promised, and now surely nigh. To her widowed heart the great hope of
   Israel appeared not so much, as to Simeon, in the light of
   consolation,' as rather in that of redemption.' The seemingly hopeless
   exile of her own tribe, the political state of Judæa, the condition -
   social, moral, and religious - of her own Jerusalem: all kindled in
   her, as in those who were like-minded, deep, earnest longing for the
   time of promised redemption.' No place so suited to such an one as the
   Temple, with its services, the only thing free, pure, undefiled, and
   pointing forward and upward; no occupation so befitting as fasting and
   prayer.' And, blessed be God, there were others, perhaps many such, in
   Jerusalem. Though Rabbinic tradition ignored them, they were the salt
   which preserved the mass from festering corruption. To her as the
   representative, the example, friend, and adviser of such, was it
   granted as prophetess to recognise Him, Whose Advent had been the
   burden of Simeon's praise. And, day by day, to those who looked for
   redemption in Jerusalem, would she speak of Him Whom her eyes had seen,
   though it must be in whispers and with bated breath. For they were in
   the city of Herod, and the stronghold of Pharisaism.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [965] 1 Cor. xii. 3.

   [966] Ber. R. 44, ed. Warsh. p. 81 b.

   [967] St. John viii. 56.

   [968] St. Luke ii. 19, 51.

   [969] Numb. xviii. 16.

   [970] So Lundius, Jüd. Alterth. p.621, and Buxtorf, Lex. Talmud. p.
   1699. But I am bound to say, that this seems contrary to the sayings of
   the Rabbis.

   [971] This disposes of the idea, that the Virgin-Mother was of direct
   Aaronic or Levitic descent.

   [972] Bechor viii. 7.

   [973] Lev. xii.

   [974] Archdeacon Farrar is mistaken in supposing, that the thirty-three
   days' were counted after the circumcision.' The idea must have arisen
   from a misunderstanding of the English version of Lev. xii. 4. There
   was no connection between the time of the circumcision of the child,
   and that of the purification of his mother. In certain circumstances
   circumcision might have to be delayed for days, in case of sickness,
   till recovery. It is equally a mistake to suppose, that a Jewish mother
   could not leave the house till after the forty days of her
   purification.

   [975] Comp. Sifra, ed. Weiss, p. 59 a and b; Maimonides, Yad haChaz.
   Hal.Mechusre Capp., ed. Amst., vol. iii. p. 255 a and b.

   [976] Comp. Kerith. i. 7.

   [977] Jer. Sheq. 50 b.

   [978] There is no ground whatever for the objection which Rabbi Löw
   (Lebensalter, p. 112) raises against the account of St. Luke. Jewish
   documents only prove, that a mother need not personally attend in the
   Temple; not that they did not do so, when attendance was possible. The
   contrary impression is conveyed to us by Jewish notices.

   [979] The expression to katharismo atn cannot refer to the Purification
   of the Virgin and her Babe (Farrar), nor to that of the Virgin and
   Joseph (Meyer), because neither the Babe nor Joseph needed, nor were
   they included in, the purification. It can only refer to their' (i.e.
   the Jews') purification. But this does not imply any Romish inferences
   (Sepp, Leben Jesu, ii. 1, p. 131) as to the superhuman condition or
   origin of the Blessed Virgin; on the contrary, the offering of the
   sin-offering points in the other direction.

   [980] Comp. the rubric and the prayers in Maimonides, Yad haChaz.
   Hilch. Biccur. xi. 5.

   [981] So Dr. Geikie.

   [982] So Dr. Geikie, taking his account from Herzog's Real-Encykl. The
   mistake about the mother being sprinkled with sacrificial blood
   orginated with Lightfoot (Horæ Hebr. on St. Luke ii. 22). Later writers
   have followed the lead. Tamid v. 6, quoted by Lightfoot, refers only to
   the cleansing of the leper. The prayers' supposed to be spoken, and the
   pronouncing clean by the priests, are the embellishments of later
   writers, for which Lightfoot is not responsible.

   [983] According to Sifra (Par. Tazria, Per. iv. 3): Whenever the
   sin-offering is changed, it precedes [as on ordinary occasions] the
   burnt-offering; but when the burnt-offering is changed [as on this
   occasion], it precedes the sin-offering.'

   [984] But this precise spot was not matter of absolute necessity (Seb.
   vi. 2). Directions are given as to the manner in which the priest was
   to perform the sacrificial act.

   [985] Kinnim i. 1. If the sin-offering was a four-footed animal, the
   blood was sprinkled above the red line.

   [986] Sebach. vi. 5.

   [987] Comp. Kerith. i. 7.

   [988] Sheq. iv. 9.

   [989] Sheq. v. 1.

   [990] Comp. St. Matt. vi. 2. See The Temple and its Services,' & c. pp.
   26, 27.

   [991] Comp. Shekal. vi. 5, the Commentaries, and Jer. Shek. 50 b.

   [992] Tosepht. Sheq. iii. 2.

   [993] According to Dr. Geikie, the Golden Gate at the head of the long
   flight of steps that led to the valley of the Kedron opened into the
   Court of the Women.' But there was no Golden Gate, neither was there
   any flight of steps into the valley of the Kedron, while between the
   Court of the Women and any outer gate (such as could have led into
   Kedron), the Court of the Gentiles and a colonnade must have
   intervened.

   [994] Or else, the gate of the firstlings.' Comp. generally, The
   Temple, its Ministry and Services.'

   [995] This they could not have done from the elevated platform on which
   they commonly worshipped.

   [996] This is stated by the Rabbis to have been the object of the
   burnt-offering. That suggested for the sin-offering is too ridiculous
   to mention. The language used about the burnt-offering reminds us of
   that in the exhortation in the office for the Churching of Women:' that
   she might be stirred up to give thanks to Almighty God, Who has
   delivered her from the pains and perils of childbirth ({hebrew}), which
   is matter of miracle.' (Comp. Hottingerus, Juris Hebr. Leges, ed.
   Tiguri, p. 233.)

   [997] Comp. Josephus, Ant. xii. 2. 5.

   [998] The expression elabs, unquestionably refers to fear of God.'
   Comp. Delitzsch, Hebr. Br. pp. 191, 192; and Grimm, Clavis N. T. p. 180
   b.

   [999] The expression {hebrew} consolation,' for the great Messianic
   hope - whence the Messianic title of Menachem - is of very frequent
   occurrence (so in the Targum on Isaiah and Jeremiah, and in many
   Rabbinical passages). Curiously enough, it is several times put into
   the mouth of a Simeon (Chag. 16 b; Macc. 5 b; Shev. 34 a) - although,
   of course, not the one mentioned by St. Luke. The suggestion, that the
   latter was the son of the great Hillel and the father of Gamaliel, St.
   Paul's teacher, though not impossible as regards time, is unsupported,
   though it does seem strange that the Mishnah has nothing to say about
   him: lo niscar bamishnah.'

   [1000] The mention of the Holy Spirit,' as speaking to individuals, is
   frequent in Rabbinic writings. This, of course, does not imply their
   belief in the Personality of the Holy Spirit (comp. Bemidb. R. 15; 20;
   Midr. on Ruth ii. 9; Yalkut, vol. i. pp. 221 b and 265 d).

   [1001] The Talmud (Ber.last page) has a curious conceit, to the effect
   that, in taking leave of a person, one ought to say: Go to peace,' not
   in peace' ({hebrew}, not {hebrew}), the former having been said by
   Jethro to Moses (Ex. iv. 18), on which he prospered; the latter by
   David to Absalom (2 Sam. xv. 9), on which he perished. On the other
   hand, on taking leave of a dead friend, we are to say Go in peace,'
   according to Gen. xv.15, and not Go to peace.'

   [1002] The expression polein, absolvere, liberare, demittere, is most
   graphic. It corresponds to the Hebrew {hebrew}, which is also used of
   death; as in regard to Simeon the Just, Menach. 109 b; comp. Ber. 17 a;
   Targum on Cant. i. 7.

   [1003] Godet seems to strain the meaning of sotrion, when he renders it
   by the neuter of the adjective. It is frequently used in the LXX. for
   {hebrew}.

   [1004] St. Luke ii. 29-32.

   [1005] Is. viii. 14.

   [1006] dialogisms, generally used in an evil sense.

   [1007] The verb nthomologesthai may mean responsive praise, or simply
   praise ({hebrew}) which in this case, however, would equally be in
   response' to that of Simeon, whether responsive in form or not.

   [1008] The whole subject of genealogies' is briefly, but well treated
   by Hamburger, Real Encykl., section ii. pp. 291 &c. It is a pity, that
   Hamburger so often treats his subject from a Judaeo-apologetic
   standpoint.

   [1009] Bar. R. 71, ed. Warsh.p. 131 b end; 99. p. 179 a, lines 13 and
   12 from bottom.

   [1010] It is scarcely necessary to discuss the curious suggestion, that
   Anna actually lived in the Temple. No one, least of all a woman,
   permanently resided in the Temple, though the High Priest had chambers
   there.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER VIII.
THE VISIT AND HOMAGE OF THE MAGI, AND THE FLIGHT INTO EGYPT

   (St. Matt. ii. 1-8.)

   With the Presentation of the Infant Saviour in the Temple, and His
   acknowledgment - not indeed by the leaders of Israel, but,
   characteristically, by the representatives of those earnest men and
   women who looked for His Advent - the Prologue, if such it may be
   called, to the third Gospel closes. From whatever source its
   information was derived - perhaps, as has been suggested, its earlier
   portion from the Virgin-Mother, the later from Anna; or else both alike
   from her, who with loving reverence and wonderment treasured it all in
   her heart - its marvellous details could not have been told with
   greater simplicity, nor yet with more exquisitely delicate grace.
   [1011] On the other hand, the Prologue to the first Gospel, while
   omitting these, records other incidents of the infancy of the Saviour.
   The plan of these narratives, or the sources whence they may originally
   have been derived, may account for the omissions in either case. At
   first sight it may seem strange, that the cosmopolitan Gospel by St.
   Luke should have described what took place in the Temple, and the
   homage of the Jews, while the Gospel by St. Matthew, which was
   primarily intended for Hebrews, records only the homage of the
   Gentiles, and the circumstances which led to the flight into Egypt. But
   of such seeming contrasts there are not a few in the Gospel-history -
   discords, which soon resolve themselves into glorious harmony.

   The story of the homage to the Infant Saviour by the Magi is told by
   St. Matthew, in language of which the brevity constitutes the chief
   difficulty. Even their designation is not free from ambiguity. The term
   Magi is used in the LXX., by Philo, Josephus, and by profane writers,
   alike in an evil and, so to speak, in a good sense [1012] - in the
   former case as implying the practice of magical arts; [1013] in the
   latter, as referring to the those Eastern (especially Chaldee)
   priest-sages, whose researches, in great measure as yet mysterious and
   unknown to us, seem to have embraced much deep knowledge, though not
   untinged with superstition. It is to these latter, that the Magi spoken
   of by St. Matthew must have belonged. Their number - to which, however,
   no importance attaches - cannot be ascertained. [1014] Various
   suggestions have been made as to the country of the East,' whence they
   came. At the period in question the sacerdotal caste of the Medes and
   Persians was dispersed over various parts of the East, [1015] and the
   presence in those lands of a large Jewish diaspora, through which they
   might, and probably would, gain knowleded of the great hope of Israel,
   [1016] is sufficiently attested by Jewish history. The oldest opinion
   traces the Magi - though partially on insufficient grounds [1017] - to
   Arabia. And there is this in favor of it, that not only the closest
   intercourse existed between Palestine and Arabia, but that from about
   120 b.c. to the sixth century of our era, the kings of Yemen professed
   the Jewish faith. [1018] For if, on the one hand, it seems unlikely,
   that Eastern Magi would spontaneously connect a celestial phenomenon
   with the birth of a Jewish king, evidence will, on the other hand, be
   presented to connect the meaning attached to the appearance of the
   star' at that particular time with Jewish expectancy of the Messiah.
   But we are anticipating.

   Shortly after the Presentation of the Infant Saviour in the Temple,
   certain Magi from the East arrived in Jerusalem with strange tidings.
   They had seen at its rising' [1019] a sidereal appearance, [1020] which
   they regarded as betokening the birth of the Messiah King of the Jews,
   in the sense which at the time attached to that designation.
   Accordingly, they had come to Jerusalem to pay homage [1021] to Him,
   probably not because they imagined He must be born in the Jewish
   capital [1022] but because they would naturally expect there to obtain
   authentic information, where' He might be found. In their simplicity of
   heart, the Magi addressed themselves in the first place to the official
   head of the nation. The rumor of such an inquiry, and by such persons,
   would rapidly spread throughout the city. But it produced on King
   Herod, and in the capital, a far different impression from the feeling
   of the Magi. Unscrupulously cruel as Herod had always proved, even the
   slightest suspicion of danger to his rule - the bare possibility of the
   Advent of One, Who had such claims upon the allegiance of Israel, and
   Who, if acknowledged, would evoke the most intense movement on their
   part - must have struck terror to his heart. Not that he could believe
   the tidings, though a dread of their possibility might creep over a
   nature such as Herod's; but the bare thought of a Pretender, with such
   claims, would fill him with suspicion, apprehension, and impotent rage.
   Nor is it difficult to understand, that the whole city should, although
   on different grounds, have shared the trouble' of the king. It was
   certainly not, as some have suggested, from apprehension of the woes'
   which, according to popular notions, were to accompany the Advent of
   Messiah. Throughout the history of Christ the absence of such woes' was
   never made a ground of objection to His Messianic claims; and this,
   because these woes' were not associated with the first Advent of the
   Messiah, but with His final manifestation in power. And between these
   two periods a more or less long interval was supposed to intervene,
   during which the Messiah would be hidden,' either in the literal sense,
   or perhaps as to His power, or else in both respects. [1023] This
   enables us to understand the question of the disciples, as to the sign
   of His coming and the end of the world, and the answer of the Master.
   [1024] But the people of Jerusalem had far other reason to fear. They
   knew only too well the character of Herod, and what the consequences
   would be to them, or to any one who might be suspected, however
   unjustly, of sympathy with any claimant to the royal throne of David.
   [1025]

   Herod took immediate measures, characterised by his usual cunning. He
   called together all the High-Priests - past and present - and all the
   learned Rabbis, [1026] and, without committing himself as to whether
   the Messiah was already born, or only expected, [1027] simply
   propounded to them the question of His birthplace. This would show him
   where Jewish expectancy looked for the appearance of his rival, and
   thus enable him to watch alike that place and the people generally,
   while it might possibly bring to light the feelings of the leaders of
   Israel. At the same time he took care diligently to inquire the precise
   time, when the sidereal appearance had first attracted the attention of
   the Magi. [1028] This would enable him to judge, how far back he would
   have to make his own inquiries, since the birth of the Pretender might
   be made to synchronise with the earliest appearance of the sidereal
   phenomenon. So long as any one lived, who was born in Bethlehem between
   the earliest appearance of this star' and the time of the arrival of
   the Magi, he was not safe. The subsequent conduct of Herod [1029]
   shows, that the Magi must have told him, that their earliest
   observation of the sidereal phenomenon had taken place two years before
   their arrival in Jerusalem.

   The assembled authorities of Israel could only return one answer to the
   question submitted by Herod. As shown by the rendering of the Targum
   Jonathan, the prediction in Micah v. 2 was at the time universally
   understood as pointing to Bethlehem, as the birthplace of the Messiah.
   That such was the general expectation, appears from the Talmud, [1030]
   where, in an imaginary conversation between an Arab and a Jew,
   Bethlehem is authoritatively named as Messiah's birthplace. St. Matthew
   reproduces the prophetic utterance of Micah, exactly as such quotations
   were popularly made at that time. It will be remembered that, Hebrew
   being a dead language so far as the people were concerned, the Holy
   Scriptures were always translated into the popular dialect, the person
   so doing being designated Methurgeman (dragoman) or interpreter. These
   renderings, which at the time of St. Matthew were not yet allowed to be
   written down, formed the precedent for, if not the basis of, our later
   Targum. In short, at that time each one Targumed for himself, and these
   Targumim (as our existing one on the Prophets shows) were neither
   literal versions, [1031] nor yet paraphrases, but something between
   them, a sort of interpreting translation. That, when Targuming, the New
   Testament writers should in preference make use of such a well-known
   and widely-spread version as the Translation of the LXX. needs no
   explanation. That they did not confine themselves to it, but, when it
   seemed necessary, literally or Targumically rendered a verse, appears
   from the actual quotations in the New Testament. Such Targuming of the
   Old Testament was entirely in accordance with the then universal method
   of setting Holy Scripture before a popular audience. It is needless to
   remark, that the New Testament writers would Targum as Christians.
   These remarks apply not only to the case under immediate consideration,
   [1032] but generally to the quotations from the Old Testament in the
   New. [1033]

   The further conduct of Herod was in keeping with his plans. He sent for
   the Magi - for various reasons, secretly. After ascertaining the
   precise time, when they had first observed the star,' he directed them
   to Bethlehem, with the request to inform him when they had found the
   Child; on pretence, that he was equally desirous with them to pay Him
   homage. As they left Jerusalem [1034] for the goal of their pilgrimage,
   to their surprise and joy, the star,' which had attracted their
   attention at its rising,' [1035] and which, as seems implied in the
   narrative, they had not seen of late, once more appeared on the
   horizon, and seemed to move before them, till it stood over where the
   young child was' - that is, of course, over Bethlehem, not over any
   special house in it. Whether at a turn of the road, close to Bethlehem,
   they lost sight of it, or they no longer heeded its position, since it
   had seemed to go before them to the goal that had been pointed out -
   for, surely, they needed not the star to guide them to Bethlehem - or
   whether the celestial phenomenon now disappeared, is neither stated in
   the Gospel-narrative, nor is indeed of any importance. Sufficient for
   them, and for us: they had been auhoritatively directed to Bethlehem;
   as they had set out for it, the sidereal phenomenon had once more
   appeared; and it had seemed to go before them, till it actually stood
   over Bethlehem. And, since in ancient times such extraordinary
   guidance' by a star' was matter of belief and expectancy, [1036] the
   Magi would, from their standpoint, regard it as the fullest
   confirmation that they had been rightly directed to Bethlehem, and they
   rejoiced with exceeding great joy.' It could not be difficult to learn
   in Bethlehem, where the Infant, around Whose Birth marvels had
   gathered, might be found. It appears that the temporary shelter of the
   stable' had been exchanged by the Holy Family for the more permanent
   abode of a house;' [1037] and there the Magi found the Infant-Saviour
   with His Mother. With exquisite tact and reverence the narrative
   attempts not the faintest description of the scene. It is as if the
   sacred writer had fully entered into the spirit of St. Paul, Yea,
   though we have known Christ after the flesh, yet now henceforth know we
   Him no more.' [1038] And thus it should ever be. It is the great fact
   of the manifestation of Christ - not its outward surroundings, however
   precious or touching they might be in connection with any ordinary
   earthly being - to which our gaze must be directed. The externals may,
   indeed, attract our sensuous nature; but they detract from the
   unmatched glory of the great supersensuous Reality. [1039] Around the
   Person of the God-Man, in the hour when the homage of the heathen world
   was first offered Him, we need not, and want not, the drapery of
   outward circumstances. That scene is best realized, not by description,
   but by silently joining in the silent homage and the silent offerings
   of the wise men from the East.'

   Before proceeding further, we must ask ourselves two questions: What
   relationship does this narrative bear to Jewish expectancy? and, Is
   there any astronomical confirmation of this account? Besides their
   intrinsic interest, the answer to the first question will determine,
   whether any legendary basis could be assigned to the narrative; while
   on the second will depend, whether the account can be truthfully
   charged with an accommodation on the part of God to the superstitions
   and errors of astrology. For, if the whole was extranatural, and the
   sidereal appearance specially produced in order to meet the
   astrological views of the Magi, it would not be a sufficient answer to
   the difficulty, that great catastrophes and unusual phenomena in nature
   have synchronised in a remarkable manner with great events in human
   history.' [1040] On the other hand, if the sidereal appearance was not
   of supernatural origin, and would equally have taken place whether or
   not there had been Magi to direct to Bethlehem, the difficulty is not
   only entirely removed, but the narrative affords another instance,
   alike of the condescension of God to the lower standpoint of the Magi,
   and of His wisdom and goodness in the combination of circumstances.

   As regards the question of Jewish expectancy, sufficient has been said
   in the preceding pages, to show that Rabbinism looked for a very
   different kind and manner of the world's homage to the Messiah than
   that of a few Magi, guided by a star to His Infant-Home. Indeed, so far
   from serving as historical basis for the orgin of such a legend' a more
   gross caricature of Jewish Messianic anticipation could scarcely be
   imagined. Similarly futile would it be to seek a background for this
   narrative in Balaam's prediction, [1041] since it is incredible that
   any one could have understood it as referring to a brief sidereal
   apparition to a few Magi, in order to bring them to look for the
   Messiah. [1042] Nor can it be represented as intended to fulfil the
   prophecy of Isaiah, [1043] [1044] that they shall bring gold and
   incense, and they shall show forth the praises of the Lord.' For,
   supposing this figurative language to have been grossly literalised,
   [1045] what would become of the other part of that prophecy, [1046]
   which must, of course, have been treated in the same manner; not to
   speak of the fact, that the whole evidently refers not to the Messiah
   (least of all in His Infancy), but to Jerusalem in her latter-day
   glory. Thus, we fail to perceive any historical basis for a legendary
   origin of St. Matthew's narrative, either in the Old Testament or,
   still less, in Jewish tradition. And we are warranted in asking: If the
   account be not true, what rational explanation can be given of its
   origin, since its invention would never have occurred to any
   contemporary Jew?

   But this is not all. There seems, indeed, no logical connection between
   this astrological interpretation of the Magi, and any supposed practice
   of astrology among the Jews. Yet, strange to say, writers have largely
   insisted on this. [1047] The charge is, to say the least, grossly
   exaggerated. That Jewish - as other Eastern - impostors pretended to
   astrological knowledge, and that such investigations may have been
   secretly carried on by certain Jewish students, is readily admitted.
   But the language of disapproval in which these pursuits are referred to
   - such as that knowledge of the Law is not found with astrologers
   [1048] - and the emphatic statement, that he who learned even one thing
   from a Mage deserved death, show what views were authoritatively held.
   [1049] [1050] Of course, the Jews (or many of them), like most
   ancients, believed in the influence of the planets upon the destiny of
   man. [1051] But it was a principle strongly expressed, and frequently
   illustrated in the Talmud, that such planetary influence did not extend
   to Israel. [1052] It must be admitted, that this was not always
   consistently carried out; and there were Rabbis who computed a man's
   future from the constellation (the Mazzal), either of the day, or the
   hour, under which he was born. [1053] It was supposed, that some
   persons had a star of their own, [1054] and the (representative) stars
   of all proselytes were said to have been present at Mount Sinai.
   Accordingly, they also, like Israel, had lost the defilement of the
   serpent (sin). [1055] One Rabbi even had it, that success, wisdom, the
   duration of life, and a posterity, depended upon the constellation.
   [1056] Such views were carried out till they merged in a kind of
   fatalism, [1057] or else in the idea of a natal affinity,' by which
   persons born under the same constellation were thought to stand in
   sympathetic rapport. [1058] The further statement, that conjunctions of
   the planets [1059] affected the products of the earth [1060] is
   scarcely astrological; nor perhaps this, that an eclipse of the sun
   betokened evil to the nations, an eclipse of the moon to Israel,
   because the former calculated time by the sun, the latter by the moon.

   But there is one illustrative Jewish statement which, though not
   astrological, is of the greatest importance, although it seems to have
   been hitherto overlooked. Since the appearance of Münter's well known
   tractate on the Star of the Magi, [1061] writers have endeavoured to
   show, that Jewish expectancy of a Messiah was connected with a peculiar
   sidereal conjunction, such as that which occurred two years before the
   birth of our Lord, [1062] and this on the ground of a quotation from
   the well-known Jewish commentator Abarbanel (or rather Abrabanel).
   [1063] In his Commentary on Daniel that Rabbi laid it down, that the
   conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn in the constellation Pisces betokened
   not only the most important events, but referred especially to Israel
   (for which he gives five mystic reasons). He further argues that, as
   that conjunction had taken place three years before the birth of Moses,
   which heralded the first deliverance of Israel, so it would also
   precede the birth of the Messiah, and the final deliverance of Israel.
   But the argument fails, not only because Abarbanel's calculations are
   inconclusive and even erroneous, [1064] but because it is manifestly
   unfair to infer the state of Jewish belief at the time of Christ from a
   haphazard astrological conceit of a Rabbi of the fifteenth century.
   There is, however, testimony which seems to us not only reliable, but
   embodies most ancient Jewish tradition. It is contained in one of the
   smaller Midrashim, of which a collection has lately been published.
   [1065] On account of its importance, one quotation at least from it
   should be made in full. The so-called Messiah-Haggadah (Aggadoth
   Mashiach) opens as follows: A star shall come out of Jacob. There is a
   Boraita in the name of the Rabbis: The heptad in which the Son of David
   cometh - in the first year, there will not be sufficient nourishment;
   in the second year the arrows of famine are launched; in the third, a
   great famine; in the fourth, neither famine nor plenty; in the fifth,
   great abundance, and the Star shall shine forth from the East, and this
   is the Star of the Messiah. And it will shine from the East for fifteen
   days, and if it be prolonged, it will be for the good of Israel; in the
   sixth, sayings (voices), and announcements (hearings); in the seventh,
   wars, and at the close of the seventh the Messiah is to be expected.' A
   similar statement occurs at the close of a collection of three
   Midrashim - respectively entitled, The Book of Elijah,' Chapters about
   the Messiah,' and The Mysteries of R. Simon, the son of Jochai' [1066]
   - where we read that a Star in the East was to appear two years before
   the birth of the Messiah. The statement is almost equally remarkable,
   whether it represents a tradition previous to the birth of Jesus, or
   originated after that event. But two years before the birth of Christ,
   which, as we have calculated, took place in December 749 a.u.c., or 5
   before the Christian era, brings us to the year 747 a.u.c., or 7 before
   Christ, in which such a Star should appear in the East. [1067]

   Did such a Star, then, really appear in the East seven years before the
   Christian era? Astronomically speaking, and without any reference to
   controversy, there can be no doubt that the most remarkable conjunction
   of planets - that of Jupiter and Saturn in the constellation of Pices,
   which occurs only once in 800 years - did take place no less than three
   times in the year 747 a.u.c., or two years before the birth of Christ
   (in May, October and December). This conjunction is admitted by all
   astronomers. It was not only extraordinary, but presented the most
   brilliant spectacle in the night-sky, such as could not but attract the
   attention of all who watched the sidereal heavens, but especially of
   those who busied themselves with astrology. In the year following, that
   is, in 748 a.u.c., another planet, Mars, joined this conjunction. The
   merit of first discovering these facts - of which it is unnecessary
   here to present the literary history [1068] - belongs to the great
   Kepler, [1069] who, accordingly, placed the Nativity of Christ in the
   year 748 a.u.c. This date, however, is not only well nigh impossible;
   but it has also been shown that such a conjunction would, for various
   reasons, not answer the requirements of the Evangelical narrative, so
   far as the guidance to Bethlehem is concerned. But it does fully
   account for the attention of the Magi being aroused, and - even if they
   had not possessed knowledge of the Jewish expectancy above described -
   for their making inquiry of all around, and certainly, among others, of
   the Jews. Here we leave the domain of the certain, and enter upon that
   of the probable. Kepler, who was led to the discovery by observing a
   similar conjunction in 1603-4, also noticed, that when the three
   planets came into conjunction, a new, extraordinary, brilliant, and
   peculiarly colored evanescent star was visible between Jupiter and
   Saturn, and he suggested that a similar star had appeared under the
   same circumstances in the conjunction preceding the Nativity. Of this,
   of course, there is not, and cannot be, absolute certainty. But, if so,
   this would be the star' of the Magi, in its rising.' There is yet
   another remarkable statement, which, however, must also be assigned
   only to the domain of the probable. In the astronomical tables of the
   Chinese - to whose general trustworthiness so high an authority as
   Humboldt bears testimony [1070] - the appearance of an evanescent star
   was noted. Pingre and others have designated it as a comet, and
   calculated its first appearance in February 750 a.u.c., which is just
   the time when the Magi would, in all probability, leave Jerusalem for
   Bethlehem, since this must have preceded the death of Herod, which took
   place in March 750. Moreover, it has been astronomically ascertained,
   that such a sidereal apparition would be visible to those who left
   Jerusalem, and that it would point - almost seem to go before - in the
   direction of, and stand over, Bethlehem. [1071] Such, impartially
   stated, are the facts of the case - and here the subject must, in the
   present state of our information, be left. [1072]

   Only two things are recorded of this visit of the Magi to Bethlehem:
   their humblest Eastern homage, and their offerings. [1073] Viewed as
   gifts, the incense and the myrrh would, indeed, have been strangely
   inappropriate. But their offerings were evidently intended as specimens
   of the products of their country, and their presentation was, even as
   in our own days, expressive of the homage of their country to the
   new-found King. In this sense, then, the Magi may truly be regarded as
   the representatives of the Gentile world; their homage as the first and
   typical acknowledgment of Christ by those who hitherto had been far
   off;' and their offerings as symbolic of the world's tribute. This
   deeper significance the ancient Church has rightly apprehended, though,
   perhaps, mistaking its grounds. Its symbolism, twining, like the
   convolvulus, around the Divine Plant, has traced in the gold the emblem
   of His Royalty; in the myrrh, of His Humanity, and that in the fullest
   evidence of it, in His burying; and in the incense, that of His
   Divinity. [1074]

   As always in the history of Christ, so here also, glory and suffering
   appear in juxtaposition. It could not be, that these Magi should become
   the innocent instruments of Herod's murderous designs; nor yet that the
   Infant-Saviour should fall a victim to the tyrant. Warned of God in a
   dream, the wise men' returned into their own country another way;' and,
   warned by the angel of the Lord in a dream, the Holy Family sought
   temporary shelter in Egypt. Baffled in the hope of attaining his object
   through the Magi, the reckless tyrant sought to secure it by an
   indiscriminate slaughter of all the children in Bethlehem and its
   immediate neighborhood, from two years and under. True, considering the
   population of Bethlehem, their number could only have been small,
   probably twenty at most. [1075] But the deed was none the less
   atrocious; and these infants may justly be regarded as the
   protomartyrs,' the first witnesses, of Christ, the blossom of martydom'
   (flores martyrum,' as Prudentius calls them). The slaughter was
   entirely in accordance with the character and former measures of Herod.
   [1076] Nor do we wonder, that it remained unrecorded by Josephus, since
   on other occasions also he has omitted events which to us seem
   important. [1077] The murder of a few infants in an insignificant
   village might appear scarcely worth notice in a reign stained by so
   much bloodshed. Besides, he had, perhaps, a special motive for this
   silence. Josephus always carefully suppresses, so far as possible, all
   that refers to the Christ [1078] - probably not only in accordance with
   his own religious views, but because mention of a Christ might have
   been dangerous, certainly would have been inconvenient, in a work
   written by an intense self-seeker, mainly for readers in Rome.

   Of two passages in his own Old Testament Scriptures the Evangelist sees
   a fulfilment in these events. The flight into Egypt is to him the
   fulfilment of this expression by Hosea, Out of Egypt have I called My
   Son.' [1079] In the murder of the Innocents,' he sees the fulfilment of
   Rachel's lament [1080]   (who died and was buried in Ramah) [1081] over
   her children, the men of Benjamin, when the exiles to Babylon met in
   Ramah, [1082] and there was bitter wailing at the prospect of parting
   for hopeless captivity, and yet bitterer lament, as they who might have
   encumbered the onward march were pitilessly slaughtered. Those who have
   attentively followed the course of Jewish thinking, and marked how the
   ancient Synagogue, and that rightly, read the Old Testament in its
   unity, as ever pointing to the Messiah as the fulfilment of Israel's
   history, will not wonder at, but fully accord with, St. Matthew's
   retrospective view. The words of Hosea were in the highest sense
   fulfilled' in the flight to, and return of, the Saviour from Egypt.
   [1083] To an inspired writer, nay, to a true Jewish reader of the Old
   Testament, the question in regard to any prophecy could not be: What
   did the prophet - but, What did the prophecy - mean? And this could
   only be unfolded in the course of Israel's history. Similarly, those
   who ever saw in the past the prototype of the future, and recognized in
   events, not only the principle, but the very features, of that which
   was to come, could not fail to perceive, in the bitter wail of the
   mothers of Bethlehem over their slaughtered children, the full
   realisation of the prophetic description of the scene enacted in
   Jeremiah's days. Had not the prophet himself heard, in the lament of
   the captives to Babylon, the echoes of Rachel's voice in the past? In
   neither one nor the other case had the utterances of the prophets
   (Hosea and Jeremiah) been predictions: they were prophetic. In neither
   one nor the other case was the fulfilment' literal: it was Scriptural,
   and that in the truest Old Testament sense.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [1011] It is scarcely necessary to point out, how evidential this is of
   the truthfulness of the Gospel-narrative. In this respect also the
   so-called Apocryphal Gospels, with their gross and often repulsive
   legendary adornments, form a striking contrast. I have purposely
   abstained from reproducing any of these narratives, partly because
   previous writers have done so, and partly because the only object
   served by repeating, what must so deeply shock the Christian mind,
   would be to point the contrast between the canonical and the Apocryphal
   Gospels. But this can, I think, be as well done by a single sentence,
   as by pages of quotations.

   [1012] The evidence on this point is furnished by J. G. Müller in
   Herzog's Real-Enc., vol. viii. p. 682. The whole subject of the visit
   of the Magi is treated with the greatest ability and learning (as
   against Strauss) by Dr. Mill (On the Mythical Interpretation of the
   Gospels,' part ii. pp. 275 &c.).

   [1013] So also in Acts viii. 9; xiii. 6, 8.

   [1014] They are variously stated as twelve (Aug. Chrysost.) and three,
   the latter on account of the number of the gifts. Other legends on the
   subject need not be repeated.

   [1015] Mill, u. s., p. 303.

   [1016] There is no historical evidence that at the time of Christ there
   was among the nations any widespread expectancy of the Advent of a
   Messiah in Palestine. Where the knowledge of such a hope existed, it
   must have been entirely derived from Jewish sources. The allusions to
   it by Tacitus (Hist. v. 13) and Suetonius (Vesp. 4) are evidently
   derived from Josephus, and admittedly refer to the Flavian dynasty, and
   to a period seventy years or more after the Advent of Christ. The
   splendid vaticination in the Fourth Eclogue of Virgil,' which
   Archdeacon Farrar regards as among the unconscious prophecies of
   heathendom,' is confessedly derived from the Cumaean Sibyl, and based
   on the Sibylline Oracles, book iii. lines 784-794 (ed. Friedlieb, p.
   86; see Einl. p. xxxix.). Almost the whole of book iii., inclusive of
   these verses, is of Jewish authorship, and dates probably from about
   160 b.c. Archdeacon Farrar holds that, besides the above references,
   there is ample proof, both in Jewish and Pagan writings, that a guilty
   and weary world was dimly expecting the advent of its Deliverer.' But
   he offers no evidence of it, either from Jewish or Pagan writings.

   [1017] Comp. Mill, u.s., p. 308, note 66. The grounds adduced by some
   are such references as to Is. viii. 4; Ps. lxxii. 10, &c.; and the
   character of the gifts.

   [1018] Comp. the account of this Jewish monarchy in the History of the
   Jewish Nation,' pp. 67-71; also Remond's Vers. e. Gesch. d. Ausbreit.
   d. Judenth. pp. 81 &c.; and Jost, Gesch. d. Isr. vol. v. pp. 236 &c.

   [1019] This is the correct rendering, and not, as in A.V., in the
   East,' the latter being expressed by the plural of natol, in v. 1,
   while in vv. 2 and 9 the word is used in the singular.

   [1020] Schleusner has abundantly proved that the word str, though
   primarily meaning a star, is also used of constellations, meteors, and
   comets - in short, has the widest application: omne designare, quod
   aliquem splendorem habet et emitit' (Lex. in N.T., t. i. pp. 390, 391).

   [1021] Not, as in the A.V., to worship,' which at this stage of the
   history would seem most incongruous, but as an equivalent of the Hebrew
   {hebrew}, as in Gen. xix. 1. So often in the LXX. and by profane
   writers (comp. Scheleusner, u. s., t. ii. pp. 749, 750, and Vorstius,
   De Hebraismis N.T. pp. 637-641).

   [1022] This is the view generally, but as I think erroneously,
   entertained. Any Jew would have told them, that the Messiah was not to
   be born in Jerusalem. Besides, the question of the Magi implies their
   ignorance of the where' of the Messiah.

   [1023] Christian writers on these subjects have generally conjoined the
   so-called woes of the Messiah' with His first appearance. It seems not
   to have occurred to them, that, if such had been the Jewish
   expectation, a preliminary objection would have lain against the claims
   of Jesus from their absence.

   [1024] As reported in St. Matt. xxiv. 3-29.

   [1025] Their feelings on this matter would be represented, mutatis
   mutandis, by the expressions in the Sanhedrin, recorded in St. John xi.
   47-50.

   [1026] Both Meyer and Weiss have shown, that this was not a meeting of
   the Sanhedrin, if, indeed, that body had anything more than a shadowy
   existence during the reign of Herod.

   [1027] The question propounded by Herod (v. 4), where Christ should be
   born,' is put neither in the past nor in the future, but in the present
   tense. In other words, he laid before them a case - a theological
   problem, but not a fact, either past or future.

   [1028] St. Matt. ii. 7.

   [1029] v. 16.

   [1030] Jer. Ber. ii. 4, p. 5 a.

   [1031] In point of fact, the Talmud expressly lays it down, that
   whosoever targums a verse in its closely literal form [without due
   regard to its meaning], is a liar.' (Kidd. 49 a; comp. on the subject
   Deutsch's Literary Remains,' p. 327).

   [1032] St. Matt. ii. 6.

   [1033] The general pinciple, that St. Matthew rendered Mic. v. 2
   targumically, would, it seems, cover all the differences between his
   quotation and the Hebrew text. But it may be worth while, in this
   instance at least, to examine the differences in detail. Two of them
   are trivial, viz., Bethlehem, land of Juda,' instead of Ephratah;'
   princes' instead of thousands,' though St. Matthew may, possibly, have
   pointed {hebrew} (princes'), instead of {hebrew} as in our Hebrew text.
   Perhaps he rendered the word more correctly than we do, since {hebrew}
   means not only a thousand' but also a part of a tribe (Is. lx. 22), a
   clan, or Beth Abh (Judg. vi. 15); comp. also Numb. i. 16; x. 4, 36;
   Deut. xxxiii. 17; Josh. xxii. 21, 30; i Sam. x. 19; xxiii. 23; in which
   case the personification of these thousands' (=our hundreds') by their
   chieftains or princes' would be a very apt Targumic rendering. Two
   other of the divergences are more important, viz., (1) Art not the
   least,' instead of though thou be little.' But the Hebrew words have
   also been otherwise rendered: in the Syriac interrogatively (art thou
   little?'), which suggests the rendering of St. Matthew; and in the
   Arabic just as by St. Matthew (vide Pocock, Porta Mosis, Notæ, c. ii.;
   but Pocock does not give the Targum accurately). Credner ingeniously
   suggested, that the rendering of St. Matthew may have been caused by a
   Targumic rendering of the Hebrew {hebrew} by {hebrew}; but he does not
   seem to have noticed, that this is the actual rendering in the Targum
   Jon. on the passage. As for the second and more serious divergence in
   the latter part of the verse, it may be best here simply to give for
   comparison the rendering of the passage in the Targum Jonathan: Out of
   thee shall come forth before Me Messiah to exercise rule over Israel.'

   [1034] Not necessarily by night, as most writers suppose.

   [1035] So correctly, and not in the East,' as in A.V.

   [1036] Proof of this is abundantly furnished by Wetstein, Nov. Test. t.
   i. pp. 247 and 248.

   [1037] v. 11.

   [1038] 2 Cor. v 16

   [1039] In this seems to lie the strongest condemnation of Romish and
   Romanising tendencies, that they ever seek to present - or, perhaps,
   rather obtrude - the external circumstances. It is not thus that the
   Gospel most fully presents to us the spiritual, nor yet thus that the
   deepest and holiest impressions are made. True religion is ever
   objectivistic, sensuous subjectivistic.

   [1040] Archdeacon Farrar.

   [1041] Numb. xxiv. 17.

   [1042] Strauss (Leben Jesu, i. pp. 224-249) finds a legendary basis for
   the Evangelic account in Numb. xxiv. 17, and also appeals to the
   legendary stories of profane writers about stars appearing at the birth
   of great men.

   [1043] lx. 6 last clauses.

   [1044] Keim (Jesu von Nazara, i. 2, p. 377) drops the appeal to legends
   of profane writers, ascribes only a secondary influence to Numb. xxiv.
   17, and lays the main stress of the legend' on Is. lx. - with what
   success the reader may judge.

   [1045] Can it be imagined thatany person would invent such a legend' on
   the strength of Is. lx. 6? On the other hand, if the event really took
   place, it is easy to understand how Christian symbolism would - though
   uncritically - have seen an adumbration of it in that prophecy.

   [1046] The multitude of camels and dromedaries,' the flocks of Kedar
   and the rams of Nebaioth' (v. 7), and the isles,' and the ships of
   Tarshish' (v. 9).

   [1047] The subject of Jewish astrology is well treated by Dr.
   Hamburger, both in the first and second volumes of his Real-Encykl. The
   ablest summary, though brief, is that in Dr. Gideon Brecher's book, Das
   Transcendentale im Talmud.' Gfrörer is, as usually, one-sided, and not
   always trustworthy in his translations. A curious brochure by Rabbi
   Thein (Der Talmud, od. das Prinzip d. planet. Elinfl.) is one of the
   boldest attempts at special pleading, to the ignoration of palpable
   facts on the other side. Hausrath's dicta on this subject are, as on
   many others, assertions unsupported by historical evidence.

   [1048] Deb. R. 8.

   [1049] Comp. Shabb. 75 a.

   [1050] I cannot, however, see that Buxtorf charges so many Rabbis with
   giving themselves to astrology as Dr. Geikie imputes to him - nor how
   Humboldt can be quoted as corroborating the Chinese record of the
   appearance of a new star in 750 (see the passage in the Cosmos, Engl.
   transl. vol. i. pp. 92, 93).

   [1051] See for ex. Jos. War vi. 5. 3.

   [1052] Shabb. 156 a.

   [1053] Shabb, u. s.

   [1054] Moed K. 16 a.

   [1055] Shabb. 145 b; 146 a comp. Yeb. 103 b.

   [1056] Moed K. 28 a.

   [1057] Comp. Baba K. 2 b; Shabb. 121 b.

   [1058] Ned. 39 b.

   [1059] Jewish astronomy distinguishes the seven planets (called
   wandering stars'); the twelve signs of the Zodiac, Mazzaloth (Aries,
   Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius,
   Capricornus, Aquarius, Pisces) - arranged by astrologers into four
   trigons: that of fire (1, 5, 9); of earth (2, 6, 10); of air (3, 7,
   11); and of water (4, 8, 12); and the stars. The Kabbalistic book
   Raziel (dating from the eleventh century) arranges them into three
   quadrons. The comets, which are called arrows or star-rods, proved a
   great difficulty to students. The planets (in their order) were:
   Shabbathai (the Sabbatic, Saturn); Tsedeq (righteousness, Jupiter);
   Maadim (the red, blood-coloured, Mars); Chammah (the Sun); Nogah
   (splendour, Venus); Cokhabh (the star, Mercury); Lebhanah (the Moon).
   Kabbalistic works depict our system as a circle, the lower arc
   consisting of Oceanos, and the upper filled by the sphere of the earth;
   next comes that of the surrounding atmosphere; then successively the
   seven semicircles of the planets, each fitting on the other - to use
   the Kabbalistic illustration - like the successive layers in an onion
   (see Sepher Raziel, ed. Lemb. 1873, pp. 9 b, 10 a). Day and night were
   divided each into twelve hours (from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., and from 6 p.m.
   to 6 a.m.). Each hour was under the influence of successive planets:
   thus, Sunday, 7 a.m., the Sun; 8 a.m., Venus; 9 a.m., Mercury; 10 a.m.,
   Moon; 11 a.m., Saturn; 12 a.m., Jupiter, and so on. Similarly, we have
   for Monday, 7 a.m., the Moon, &c.; for Tuesday, 7 a.m., Mars; for
   Wednesday, 7 a.m., Mercury; for Thursday, 7 a.m., Jupiter; for Friday,
   7 a.m., Venus; and for Saturday, 7 a.m., Saturn. Most important were
   the Tequphoth, in which the Sun entered respectively Aries (Tek. Nisan,
   spring-equinox, harvest'), Cancer (Tek. Tammuz, summer solstice,
   warmth'), Libra (Tek. Tishri, autumn-equinox, seed-time), Capricornus
   (Tek. Tebheth, winter-solstice, cold'). Comp. Targ. Pseudo-Jon. on Gen.
   viii. 22. From one Tequphah to the other were 91 days 7½ hours. By a
   beautiful figure the sundust is called filings of the day' (as the word
   xsma - that which falls off from the sunwheel as it turns (Yoma 20 b).

   [1060] Erub. 56 a: Ber. R. 10.

   [1061] Der Stern der Weisen,' Copenhagen, 1827. The tractate, though so
   frequently quoted, seems scarcely to have been sufficiently studied,
   most writers having apparently rather read the references to it in
   Ideler's Handb. d. Math. u techn. Chronol. Münter's work contains much
   that is interesting and important.

   [1062] In 747 a.u.c., or 7 b.c.

   [1063] Born 1439 died 1508.

   [1064] To form an adequate conception of the untrustworthiness of such
   a testimony, it is necessary to study the history of the astronomical
   and astrological pursuits of the Jews during that period, of which a
   masterly summary is given in Steinschneider's History of Jewish
   Literature (Ersch u. Gruber, Encykl. vol. xxvii.). Comp. also Sachs,
   Relig. Poes. d. Juden in Spanien, pp. 230 &c.

   [1065] By Dr. Jellinek, in a work in six parts, entitled Beth
   ha-Midrash,' Leipz, and Vienna, 1853-1878.

   [1066] Jellinek, Beth ha-Midrash, fasc. iii. p. 8.

   [1067] It would, of course, be possible to argue, that the Evangelic
   account arose from this Jewish tradition about the appearance of a star
   two years before the birth of the Messiah. But ut has been already
   shown, that the hypothesis of a Jewish legendary origin is utterly
   untenable. Besides, if St. Matthew ii. had been derived from this
   tradition, the narrative would have been quite differently shaped, and
   more especially the two years' interval between the rising of the star
   and the Advent of the Messiah would have been emphasized, instead of
   being, as now, rather matter of inference.

   [1068] The chief writers on the subject have been: Münter (u.s.),
   Ideler (u.s.). and Wieseler (Chronol. Synopse d. 4 Evang. (1843), and
   again in Herzog's Real-Enc. vol. xxi p. 544, and finally in his Beitr.
   z. Würd. d Ev. 1869). In our own country, writers have, since the
   appearance of Professor Pritchard's art. (Star of the Wise Men') in Dr.
   Smith's Bible Dict. vol. iii., generally given up the astronomical
   argument, without, however, clearly indicating whether they regard the
   star as a miraculous guidance. I do not, of course, presume to enter on
   an astronomical discussion with Professor Pritchard; but as his
   reasoning proceeds on the idea that the planetary conjunction of 747
   a.u.c., is regarded as the Star of the Magi,' his arguments do not
   apply either to the view presented in the text nor even to that of
   Wieseler. Besides, I must guard myself against accepting his
   interpretation of the narrative in St. Matthew.

   [1069] De Stella Nova &c., Pragæ, 1606.

   [1070] Cosmos. vol. i. p. 92.

   [1071] By the astronomer, Dr. Goldschmidt. (See Wieseler, Chron. Syn.
   p. 72.).

   [1072] A somewhat different view is presented in the laborious and
   learned edition of the New Testament by Mr. Brown McClellan (vol. i.
   pp, 400-402).

   [1073] Our A.V. curiously translates in v. 11, treasures,' instead of
   treasury-cases.' The expression is exactly the same as in Deut. xxviii.
   12, for which the LXX. use the same words as the Evangelist. The
   expression is also used in this sense in the Apocr. and by profane
   writers. Comp. Wetstein and Meyer ad locum. Jewish tradition also
   expresses the expectancy that the nations of the world would offer
   gifts unto the Messiah. (Comp. Pes. 118 b; Ber. R. 78.).

   [1074] So not only in ancient hymns (by Sedulius, Juvencus, and
   Claudian), but by the Fathers and later writers. (Comp. Sepp, Leben
   Jesu, ii. 1, pp. 102, 103.)

   [1075] So Archdeacon Farrar rightly computes it.

   [1076] An illustrative instance of the ruthless destruction of whole
   families on suspicion that his crown was in danger, occurs in Ant. xv.
   8. 4. But the suggestion that Bagoas had suffered at the hands of Herod
   for Messianic predictions is entirely an invention of Keim. (Schenkel,
   Bibel Lex., vol. iii. p. 37. Comp. Ant. xvii. 2. 4.)

   [1077] There are, in Josephus' history of Herod, besides omissions,
   inconsistencies of narrative, such as about the execution of Mariamme
   (Ant. xv. 3, 5-9 &c.; comp. War i. 22. 3, 4), and of chronology (as War
   i. 18. 2, comp. v. 9. 4; Ant. xiv. 16. 2, comp. xv. 1. 2, and others.)

   [1078] Comp. on article on Josephus in Smith and Wace's Dict. of
   Christian Biogr.

   [1079] Hos. xi. 1.

   [1080] Jer. xxxi. 15.

   [1081] See the evidence for it summarized in Sketches of Jewish Social
   Life in the Days of Christ,' p. 60.

   [1082] Jer. xi. 1.

   [1083] In point of fact the ancient Synagogue did actually apply to the
   Messiah Ex. iv. 22, on which the words of Hosea are based. See the
   Midrash on Ps. ii. 7. The quotation is given in full in our remarks on
   Ps. ii. 7 in Appendix IX.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER IX.
THE CHILD-LIFE IN NAZARETH

   (St. Matt. ii. 19-23; St. Luke ii. 39, 40.)

   THE stay of the Holy Family in Egypt must have been of brief duration.
   The cup of Herod's misdeeds, but also of his misery, was full. During
   the whole latter part of his life, the dread of a rival to the throne
   had haunted him, and he had sacrificed thousands, among them those
   nearest and dearest to him, to lay that ghost. [1084] And still the
   tyrant was not at rest. A more terrible scene is not presented in
   history than that of the closing days of Herod. Tormented by nameless
   fears; ever and again a prey to vain remorse, when he would frantically
   call for his passionately-loved, murdered wife Mariamme, and her sons;
   even making attempts on his own life; the delirium of tyranny, the
   passion for blood, drove him to the verge of madness. The most
   loathsome disease, such as can scarcely be described, had fastened on
   his body, [1085] and his sufferings were at times agonizing. By the
   advice of his physicians, he had himself carried to the baths of
   Callirhoe (east of the Jordan), trying all remedies with the
   determination of one who will do hard battle for life. It was in vain.
   The namelessly horrible distemper, which had seized the old man of
   seventy, held him fast in its grasp, and, so to speak, played death on
   the living. He knew it, that his hour was come, and had himself
   conveyed back to his palace under the palm-trees of Jericho. They had
   known it also in Jerusalem, and, even before the last stage of his
   disease, two of the most honored and loved Rabbis - Judas and Matthias
   - had headed the wild band, which would sweep away all traces of
   Herod's idolatrous rule. They began by pulling down the immense golden
   eagle, which hung over the great gate of the Temple. The two
   ringleaders, and forty of their followers, allowed themselves to be
   taken by Herod's guards. A mock public trial in the theatre at Jericho
   followed. Herod, carried out on a couch, was both accuser and judge.
   The zealots, who had made noble answer to the tyrant, were burnt alive;
   and the High-Priest, who was suspected of connivance, deposed.

   After that the end came rapidly. On his return from Callirhoe, feeling
   his death approaching, the King had summoned the noblest of Israel
   throughout the land of Jericho, and shut them up in the Hippodrome,
   with orders to his sister to have them slain immediately upon his
   death, in the grim hope that the joy of the people at his decease would
   thus be changed into mourning. Five days before his death one ray of
   passing joy lighted his couch. Terrible to say, it was caused by a
   letter from Augustus allowing Herod to execute his son Antipater - the
   false accuser and real murderer of his half-brothers Alexander and
   Aristobulus. The death of the wretched prince was hastened by his
   attempt to bribe the jailer, as the noise in the palace, caused by an
   attempted suicide of Herod, led him to suppose his father was actually
   dead. And now the terrible drama was hastening to a close. The fresh
   access of rage shortened the life which was already running out. Five
   days more, and the terror of Judæa lay dead. He had reigned
   thirty-seven years - thirty-four since his conquest of Jerusalem. Soon
   the rule for which he had so long plotted, striven, and stained himself
   with untold crimes, passed from his descendants. A century more, and
   the whole race of Herod had been swept away.

   We pass by the empty pageant and barbaric splendor of his burying in
   the Castle of Herodium, close to Bethlehem. The events of the last few
   weeks formed a lurid back-ground to the murder of the Innocents.' As we
   have reckoned it, the visit of the Magi took place in February 750
   a.u.c. On the 12th of March the Rabbis and their adherents suffered. On
   the following night (or rather early morning) there was a lunar
   eclipse; the execution of Antipater preceded the death of his father by
   five days, and the latter occurred from seven to fourteen days before
   the Passover, which in 750 took place on the 12th of April. [1086]

   It need scarcely be said, that Salome (Herod's sister) and her husband
   were too wise to execute Herod's direction in regard to the noble Jews
   shut up in the Hippodrome. Their liberation, and the death of Herod,
   were marked by the leaders of the people as joyous events in the
   so-called Megillath Taanith, or Roll of Fasts, although the date is not
   exactly marked. [1087] Henceforth this was to be a Yom Tobh
   (feast-day), on which mourning was interdicted. [1088]

   Herod had three times before changed his testament. By the first will
   Antipater, the successful calumniator of Alexander and Aristobulus, had
   been appointed his successor, while the latter two were named kings,
   though we know not of what districts. [1089] After the execution of the
   two sons of Mariamme, Antipater was named king, and, in case of his
   death, Herod, the son of Mariamme II. When the treachery of Antipater
   was proved, Herod made a third will, in which Antipas (the Herod
   Antipas of the New Testament) was named his successor. [1090] But a few
   days before his death he made yet another disposition, by which
   Archelaus, the elder brother of Antipas (both sons of Malthake, a
   Samaritan), was appointed king; Antipas tetrarch of Galilee and Peræa;
   and Philip (the son of Cleopatra, of Jerusalem [1091] ), tetrarch of
   the territory east of the Jordan. [1092] These testaments reflected the
   varying phases of suspicion and family-hatred through which Herod had
   passed. Although the Emperor seems to have authorised him to appoint
   his successor, [1093] Herod wisely made his disposition dependent on
   the approval of Augustus. [1094] But the latter was not by any means to
   be taken for granted. Archelaus had, indeed, been immediately
   proclaimed King by the army; but he prudently declined the title, till
   it had been confirmed by the Emperor. The night of his father's death,
   and those that followed, were characteristically spent by Archelaus in
   rioting with his friends. [1095] But the people of Jerusalem were not
   easily satisfied. At first liberal promises of amnesty and reforms had
   assuaged the populace. [1096] But the indignation excited by the late
   murder of the Rabbis soon burst into a storm of lamentation, and then
   of rebellion, which Archelaus silenced by the slaughter of not less
   than three thousand, and that within the sacred precincts of the Temple
   itself. [1097]

   Other and more serious difficulties awaited him in Rome, whither he
   went in company with his mother, his aunt Salome, and other relatives.
   These, however, presently deserted him to espouse the claims of
   Antipas, who likewise appeared before Augustus to plead for the royal
   succession, assigned to him in a former testament. The Herodian family,
   while intriguing and clamouring each on his own account, were, for
   reasons easily understood, agreed that they would rather not have a
   king at all, but be under the suzerainty of Rome; though, if king there
   must be, they preferred Antipas to Archelaus. Meanwhile, fresh troubles
   broke out in Palestine, which were suppressed by fire, sword, and
   crucifixions. And now two other deputations arrived in the Imperial
   City. Philip, the step-brother of Archelaus, to whom the latter had
   left the administration of his kingdom, came to look after his own
   interests, as well as to support Archelaus. [1098] [1099] At the same
   time, a Jewish deputation of fifty, from Palestine, accompanied by
   eight thousand Roman Jews, clamoured for the deposition of the entire
   Herodian race, on account of their crimes, [1100] and the incorporation
   of Palestine with Syria - no doubt in hope of the same
   semi-independence under their own authorities, enjoyed by their
   fellow-religionists in the Grecian cities. Augustus decided to confirm
   the last testament of Herod, with certain slight modifications, of
   which the most important was that Archelaus should bear the title of
   Ethnarch, which, if he deserved it, would by-and-by be exchanged for
   that of King. His dominions were to be Judæa, Idumæa, and Samaria, with
   a revenue of 600 talents [1101] (about 230,000l. to 240,000l). It is
   needless to follow the fortunes of the new Ethnarch. He began his rule
   by crushing all resistance by the wholesale slaughter of his opponents.
   Of the High-Priestly office he disposed after the manner of his father.
   But he far surpassed him in cruelty, oppression, luxury, the grossest
   egotism, and the lowest sensuality, and that, without possessing the
   talent or the energy of Herod. [1102] His brief reign ceased in the
   year 6 of our era, when the Emperor banished him, on account of his
   crimes to Gaul.

   It must have been soon after the accession of Archelaus, [1103] but
   before tidings of it had actually reached Joseph in Egypt, that the
   Holy Family returned to Palestine. The first intention of Joseph seems
   to have been to settle in Bethlehem, where he had lived since the birth
   of Jesus. Obvious reasons would incline him to choose this, and, if
   possible, to avoid Nazareth as the place of his residence. His trade,
   even had he been unknown in Bethlehem, would have easily supplied the
   modest wants of his household. But when, on reaching Palestine, he
   learned who the successor of Herod was, and also, no doubt, in what
   manner he had inaugurated his reign, common prudence would have
   dictated the withdrawal of the Infant-Saviour from the dominions of
   Archelaus. But it needed Divine direction to determine his return to
   Nazareth. [1104]

   Of the many years spent in Nazareth, during which Jesus passed from
   infancy to childhood, from childhood to youth, and from youth to
   manhood, the Evangelic narrative has left us but briefest notice. Of
   His childhood: that He grew and waxed strong in spirit, filled with
   wisdom, and the grace of God was upon Him;' [1105] of His youth:
   besides the account of His questioning the Rabbis in the Temple, the
   year before he attained Jewish majority - that He was subject to His
   parents,' and that He increased in wisdom and in stature, and in favour
   with God and man.' Considering what loving care watched over Jewish
   child-life, tenderly marking by not fewer than eight designations the
   various stages of its development, [1106] and the deep interest
   naturally attaching to the early life of the Messiah, that silence, in
   contrast to the almost blasphemous absurdities of the Apocryphal
   Gospels, teaches us once more, and most impressively, that the Gospels
   furnish a history of the Saviour, not a biography of Jesus of Nazareth.

   St. Matthew, indeed, summarises the whole outward history of the life
   in Nazareth in one sentence. Henceforth Jesus would stand out before
   the Jews of His time - and, as we know, of all times, [1107] by the
   distinctive designation: of Nazareth,' {hebrew} (Notsri), Nazoraos, the
   Nazarene.' In the mind of a Palestinian a peculiar significance would
   attach to the by-Name of the Messiah, especially in its connection with
   the general teaching of prophetic Scripture. And here we must remember,
   that St. Matthew primarily addressed his Gospel to Palestinian readers,
   and that it is the Jewish presentation of the Messiah as meeting Jewish
   expectancy. In this there is nothing derogatory to the character of the
   Gospel, no accommodation in the sense of adaptation, since Jesus was
   not only the Saviour of the world, but especially also the King of the
   Jews, and we are now considering how He would stand out before the
   Jewish mind. On one point all were agreed: His Name was Notsri (of
   Nazareth). St. Matthew proceeds to point out, how entirely this
   accorded with prophetic Scripture - not, indeed, with any single
   prediction, but with the whole language of the prophets. From this
   [1108] the Jews derived not fewer than eight designations or Names by
   which the Messiah was to be called. The most prominent among them was
   that of Tsemach, or Branch.' [1109] We call it the most prominent, not
   only because it is based upon the clearest Scripture-testimony, but
   because it evidently occupied the foremost rank in Jewish thinking,
   being embodied in this earliest portion of their daily liturgy: The
   Branch of David, Thy Servant, speedily make to shoot forth, and His
   Horn exalt Thou by Thy Salvation....Blessed art Thou Jehovah, Who
   causeth to spring forth (literally: to branch forth) the Horn of
   Salvation' (15th Eulogy). Now, what is expressed by the word Tsemach is
   also conveyed by the term Netser, Branch,' in such passages as Isaiah
   xi,1, which was likewise applied to the Messiah. [1110] Thus, starting
   from Isaiah xi. 1, Netser being equivalent to Tsemach, Jesus would, as
   Notsri or Ben Netser, [1111] [1112] bear in popular parlance, and that
   on the ground of prophetic Scriptures, the exact equivalent of the
   best-known designation of the Messiah. [1113] The more significant
   this, that it was not a self-chosen nor man-given name, but arose, in
   the providence of God, from what otherwise might have been called the
   accident of His residence. We admit that this is a Jewish view; but
   then this Gospel is the Jewish view of the Jewish Messiah.

   But, taking this Jewish title in its Jewish significance, it has also a
   deeper meaning, and that not only to Jews, but to all men. The idea of
   Christ as the Divinely placed Branch' (symbolised by His
   Divinely-appointed early residence), small and despised in its
   forthshooting, or then visible appearance (like Nazareth and the
   Nazarenes), but destined to grow as the Branch sprung out of Jesse's
   roots, is most marvellously true to the whole history of the Christ,
   alike as sketched by the prophets,' and as exhibited in reality. And
   thus to us all, Jews or Gentiles, the Divine guidance to Nazareth and
   the name Nazarene present the truest fulfilment of the prophecies of
   His history.

   Greater contrast could scarcely be imagined than between the intricate
   scholastic studies of the Judæans, and the active pursuits that engaged
   men in Galilee. It was a common saying: If a person wishes to be rich,
   let him go north; if he wants to be wise, let him come south' - and to
   Judæa, accordingly, flocked, from ploughshare and workshop, whoever
   wished to become learned in the Law.' The very neighbourhood of the
   Gentile world, the contact with the great commercial centres close by,
   and the constant intercourse with foreigners, who passed through
   Galilee along one of the world's great highways, would render the
   narrow exclusiveness of the Southerners impossible. Galilee was to
   Judaism the Court of the Gentiles' - the Rabbinic Schools of Judæa its
   innermost Sanctuary. The natural disposition of the people, even the
   soil and climate of Galilee, were not favourable to the all-engrossing
   passion for Rabbinic study. In Judæa all seemed to invite to
   retrospection and introspection; to favour habits of solitary thought
   and study, till it kindled into fanaticism. Mile by mile as you
   travelled southwards, memories of the past would crowd around, and
   thoughts of the future would rise within. Avoiding the great towns as
   the centres of hated heathenism, the traveller would meet few
   foreigners, but everywhere encounter those gaunt representatives of
   what was regarded as the superlative excellency of his religion. These
   were the embodiment of Jewish piety and asceticism, the possessors and
   expounders of the mysteries of his faith, the fountain-head of wisdom,
   who were not only sure of heaven themselves, but knew its secrets, and
   were its very aristocracy; men who could tell him all about his own
   religion, practised its most minute injunctions, and could interpret
   every stroke and letter of the Law - nay, whose it actually was to
   loose and to bind,' to pronounce an action lawful or unlawful, and to
   remit or retain sins,' by declaring a man liable to, or free from,
   expiatory sacrifices, or else punishment in this or the next world. No
   Hindoo fanatic would more humbly bend before Brahmin saints, nor devout
   Romanist more venerate the members of a holy fraternity, than the Jew
   his great Rabbis. [1114] Reason, duty, and precept, alike bound him to
   reverence them, as he reverenced the God Whose interpreters,
   representatives, deputies, intimate companions, almost colleagues in
   the heavenly Sanhedrin, they were. And all around, even nature itself,
   might seem to foster such tendencies. Even at that time Judæa was
   comparatively desolate, barren, grey. The decaying cities of ancient
   renown; the lone highland scenery; the bare, rugged hills; the rocky
   terraces from which only artificial culture could woo a return; the
   wide solitary plains, deep glens, limestone heights - with distant
   glorious Jerusalem ever in the far background, would all favour
   solitary thought and religious abstraction.

   It was quite otherwise in Galilee. The smiling landscape of Lower
   Galilee invited the easy labour of the agriculturist. Even the
   highlands of Upper Galilee [1115] were not, like those of Judæa,
   sombre, lonely, enthusiasm-killing, but gloriously grand, free, fresh,
   and bracing. A more beautiful country - hill, dale, and lake - could
   scarcely be imagined than Galilee Proper. It was here that Asher had
   dipped his foot in oil.' According to the Rabbis, it was easier to rear
   a forest of olive-trees in Galilee than one child in Judæa. Corn grew
   in abundance; the wine, though not so plentiful as the oil, was rich
   and generous. Proverbially, all fruit grew in perfection, and
   altogether the cost of living was about one-fifth that in Judæa. And
   then, what a teeming, busy population! Making every allowance for
   exaggeration, we cannot wholly ignore the account of Josephus about the
   240 towns and villages of Galilee, each with not less than 15,000
   inhabitants. In the centres of industry all then known trades were
   busily carried on; the husbandman pursued his happy toil on genial
   soil, while by the Lake of Gennesaret, with its unrivalled beauty, its
   rich villages, and lovely retreats, the fisherman plied his healthy
   avocation. By those waters, overarched by a deep blue sky, spangled
   with the brilliancy of innumerable stars, a man might feel constrained
   by nature itself to meditate and pray; he would not be likely to
   indulge in a morbid fanaticism.

   Assuredly, in its then condition, Galilee was not the home of
   Rabbinism, though that of generous spirits, of warm, impulsive hearts,
   of intense nationalism, of simple manners, and of earnest piety. Of
   course, there would be a reverse side to the picture. Such a race would
   be excitable, passionate, violent. The Talmud accuses them of being
   quarrelsome, [1116] but admits that they cared more for honour than for
   money. The great ideal teacher of Palestinian schools was Akiba, and
   one of his most outspoken opponents a Galilean, Rabbi José. [1117] In
   religious observances their practice was simpler; as regarded canon-law
   they often took independent views, and generally followed the
   interpretations of those who, in opposition to Akiba, inclined to the
   more mild and rational - we had almost said, the more human -
   application of traditionalism. [1118] The Talmud mentions several
   points in which the practice of the Galileans differed from that of
   Judæa - all either in the direction of more practical earnestness,
   [1119] or of alleviation of Rabbinic rigorism. [1120] On the other
   hand, they were looked down upon as neglecting traditionalism, unable
   to rise to its speculative heights, and preferring the attractions of
   the Haggadah to the logical subtleties of the Halakhah. [1121] There
   was a general contempt in Rabbinic circles for all that was Galilean.
   Although the Judæan or Jerusalem dialect was far from pure, [1122] the
   people of Galilee were especially blamed for neglecting the study of
   their language, charged with error in grammar, and especially with
   absurd malpronunciation, sometimes leading to ridiculous mistakes.
   [1123] Galilean - Fool!' was so common an expression, that a learned
   lady turned with it upon so great a man as R. José, the Galilean,
   because he had used two needless words in asking her the road to Lydda.
   [1124] [1125] Indeed, this R. José had considerable prejudices to
   overcome, before his remarkable talents and learning were fully
   acknowledged. [1126]

   Among such a people, and in that country, Jesus spent by far the
   longest part of His life upon earth. Generally, this period may be
   described as that of His true and full Human Development - physical,
   intellectual, spiritual - of outward submission to man, and inward
   submission to God, with the attendant results of wisdom,' favour,' and
   grace.' Necessary, therefore, as this period was, if the Christ was to
   be True Man, it cannot be said that it was lost, even so far as His
   Work as Saviour was concerned. It was more than the preparation for
   that work; it was the commencement of it: subjectively (and passively),
   the self-abnegation of humiliation in His willing submission; and
   objectively (and actively), the fulfilment of all righteousness through
   it. But into this mystery of piety' we may only look afar off - simply
   remarking, that it almost needed for us also these thirty years of
   Human Life, that the overpowering thought of His Divinity might not
   overshadow that of His Humanity. But if He was subject to such
   conditions, they must, in the nature of things, have affected His
   development. It is therefore not presumption when, without breaking the
   silence of Holy Scripture, we follow the various stages of the Nazareth
   life, as each is, so to speak, initialled by the brief but emphatic
   summaries of the third Gospel.

   In regard to the Child-Life, [1127] we read: And the Child grew, and
   waxed strong in spirit, [1128] being filled with wisdom, and the grace
   of God was upon Him.' [1129] This marks, so to speak, the lowest rung
   in the ladder. Having entered upon life as the Divine Infant, He began
   it as the Human Child, subject to all its conditions, yet perfect in
   them.

   These conditions were, indeed, for that time, the happiest conceivable,
   and such as only centuries of Old Testament life-training could have
   made them. The Gentile world here presented terrible contrast, alike in
   regard to the relation of parents and children, and the character and
   moral object of their upbringing. Education begins in the home, and
   there were not homes like those in Israel; it is imparted by influence
   and example, before it comes by teaching; it is acquired by what is
   seen and heard, before it is laboriously learned from books; its real
   object becomes instinctively felt, before its goal is consciously
   sought. What Jewish fathers and mothers were; what they felt towards
   their children; and with what reverence, affection, and care the latter
   returned what they had received, is known to every reader of the Old
   Testament. The relationship of father has its highest sanction and
   embodiment in that of God towards Israel; the tenderness and care of a
   mother in that of the watchfulness and pity of the Lord over His
   people. The semi-Divine relationship between children and parents
   appears in the location, the far more than outward duties which it
   implies in the wording, of the Fifth Commandment. No punishment more
   prompt than that of its breach; [1130] no description more terribly
   realistic than that of the vengeance which overtakes such sin. [1131]

   From the first days of its existence, a religious atmosphere surrounded
   the child of Jewish parents. Admitted in the number of God's chosen
   people by the deeply significant rite of circumcision, when its name
   was first spoken in the accents of prayer, [1132] it was henceforth
   separated unto God. Whether or not it accepted the privileges and
   obligations implied in this dedication, they came to him directly from
   God, as much as the circumstances of his birth. The God of Abraham,
   Isaac, and Jacob, the God of Israel, the God of the promises, claimed
   him, with all of blessing which this conveyed, and of responsibility
   which resulted from it. And the first wish expressed for him was that,
   as he had been joined to the covenant,' so it might also be to him in
   regard to the Torah' (Law), to the Chuppah' (the marriage-baldachino),
   and to good works;' in other words, that he might live godly, soberly,
   and righteously in this present world' - a holy, happy, and God-devoted
   life. And what this was, could not for a moment be in doubt. Putting
   aside the overlying Rabbinic interpretations, the ideal of life was
   presented to the mind of the Jew in a hundred different forms - in none
   perhaps more popularly than in the words, These are the things of which
   a man enjoys the fruit in this world, but their possession continueth
   for the next: to honour father and mother, pious works, peacemaking
   between man and man, and the study of the Law, which is equivalent to
   them all.' [1133] This devotion to the Law was, indeed, to the Jew the
   all in all - the sum of intellectual pursuits, the aim of life. What
   better thing could a father seek for his child than this inestimable
   boon?

   The first education was necessarily the mother's. [1134] Even the
   Talmud owns this, when, among the memorable sayings of the sages, it
   records one of the School of Rabbi Jannai, to the effect that knowledge
   of the Law may be looked for in those, who have sucked it in at their
   mother's breast. [1135] And what the true mothers in Israel were, is
   known not only from instances in the Old Testament, from the praise of
   woman in the Book of Proverbs, and from the sayings of the son of
   Sirach (Ecclus. iii. [1136] ), but from the Jewish women of the New
   Testament. [1137] If, according to a somewhat curious traditional
   principle, women were dispensed from all such positive obligations as
   were incumbent at fixed periods of time (such as putting on
   phylacteries), other religious duties devolved exclusively upon them.
   The Sabbath meal, the kindling of the Sabbath lamp, and the setting
   apart a portion of the dough from the bread for the household, these
   are but instances, with which every Taph,' as he clung to his mother's
   skirts, must have been familiar. Even before he could follow her in
   such religious household duties, his eyes must have been attracted by
   the Mezuzah attached to the door-post, as the name of the Most High on
   the outside of the little folded parchment [1138] was reverently
   touched by each who came or went, and then the fingers kissed that had
   come in contact with the Holy Name. [1139] Indeed, the duty of the
   Mezuzah was incumbent on women also, and one can imagine it to have
   been in the heathen-home of Lois and Eunice in the far-off dispersion,'
   where Timothy would first learn to wonder at, then to understand, its
   meaning. And what lessons for the past and for the present might not be
   connected with it! In popular opinion it was the symbol of the Divine
   guard over Israel's homes, the visible emblem of this joyous hymn: The
   Lord shall preserve thy going out and coming in, from this time forth,
   and even for evermore.' [1140]

   There could not be national history, nor even romance, to compare with
   that by which a Jewish mother might hold her child entranced. And it
   was his own history - that of his tribe, clan, perhaps family; of the
   past, indeed, but yet of the present, and still more of the glorious
   future. Long before he could go to school, or even Synagogue, the
   private and united prayers and the domestic rites, whether of the
   weekly Sabbath or of festive seasons, would indelibly impress
   themselves upon his mind. In mid-winter there was the festive
   illumination in each home. In most houses, the first night only one
   candle was lit, the next two, and so on to the eighth day; and the
   child would learn that this was symbolic, and commemorative of the
   Dedication of the Temple, its purgation, and the restoration of its
   services by the lion-hearted Judas the Maccabee. Next came, in earliest
   spring, the merry time of Purim, the Feast of Esther and of Israel's
   deliverance through her, with its good cheer and boisterous enjoyments.
   [1141] Although the Passover might call the rest of the family to
   Jerusalem, the rigid exclusion of all leaven during the whole week
   could not pass without its impressions. Then, after the Feast of Weeks,
   came bright summer. But its golden harvest and its rich fruits would
   remind of the early dedication of the first and best to the Lord, and
   of those solemn processions in which it was carried up to Jerusalem. As
   autumn seared the leaves, the Feast of the New Year spoke of the
   casting up of man's accounts in the great Book of Judgment, and the
   fixing of destiny for good or for evil. Then followed the Fast of the
   Day of Atonement, with its tremendous solemnities, the memory of which
   could never fade from mind or imagination; and, last of all, in the
   week of the Feast of Tabernacles, there were the strange leafy booths
   in which they lived and joyed, keeping their harvest-thanksgiving; and
   praying and longing for the better harvest of a renewed world.

   But it was not only through sight and hearing that, from its very
   inception, life in Israel became religious. There was also from the
   first positive teaching, of which the commencement would necessarily
   devolve on the mother. It needed not the extravagant laudations, nor
   the promises held out by the Rabbis, to incite Jewish women to this
   duty. If they were true to their descent, it would come almost
   naturally to them. Scripture set before them a continuous succession of
   noble Hebrew mothers. How well they followed their example, we learn
   from the instance of her, whose son, the child of a Gentile father, and
   reared far away, where there was not even a Synagogue to sustain
   religious life, had from an infant [1142] known the Holy Scriptures,'
   and that in their life-moulding influence. [1143] It was, indeed, no
   idle boast that the Jews were from their swaddling-clothes...trained to
   recognise God as their Father, and as the Maker of the world;' that,
   having been taught the knowledge (of the laws) from earliest youth,
   they bore in their souls the image of the commandments;' [1144] that
   from their earliest consciousness they learned the laws, so as to have
   them, as it were, engraven upon the soul;' [1145] and that they were
   brought up in learning,' exercised in the laws,' and made acquainted
   with the acts of their predecessors in order to their imitation of
   them.' [1146]

   But while the earliest religious teaching would, of necessity, come
   from the lips of the mother, it was the father who was bound to teach
   his son.' [1147] To impart to the child knowledge of the Torah
   conferred as great spiritual distinction, as if a man had received the
   Law itself on Mount Horeb. [1148] Every other engagement, even the
   necessary meal, should give place to this paramount duty; [1149] nor
   should it be forgotten that, while here real labour was necessary, it
   would never prove fruitless. [1150] That man was of the profane vulgar
   (an Am ha-arets), who had sons, but failed to bring them up in
   knowledge of the Law. [1151] Directly the child learned to speak, his
   religious instruction was to begin [1152] - no doubt, with such verses
   of Holy Scripture as composed that part of the Jewish liturgy, which
   answers to our Creed. [1153] Then would follow other passages from the
   Bible, short prayers, and select sayings of the sages. Special
   attention was given to the culture of the memory, since forgetfulness
   might prove as fatal in its consequences as ignorance or neglect of the
   Law. [1154] Very early the child must have been taught what might be
   called his birthday-text - some verse of Scripture beginning, or ending
   with, or at least containing, the same letters as his Hebrew name. This
   guardian-promise the child would insert in its daily prayers. [1155]
   The earliest hymns taught would be the Psalms for the days of the week,
   or festive Psalms, such as the Hallel, [1156] or those connected with
   the festive pilgrimages to Zion.

   The regular instruction commenced with the fifth or sixth year
   (according to strength), when every child was sent to school. [1157]
   There can be no reasonable doubt that at that time such schools existed
   throughout the land. We find references to them at almost every period;
   indeed, the existence of higher schools and Academies would not have
   been possible without such primary instruction. Two Rabbis of
   Jerusalem, specially distinguished and beloved on account of their
   educational labours, were among the last victims of Herod's cruelty.
   [1158] Later on, tradition ascribes to Joshua the son of Gamla the
   introduction of schools in every town, and the compulsory education in
   them of all children above the age of six. [1159] Such was the
   transcendent merit attaching to this act, that it seemed to blot out
   the guilt of the purchase for him of the High-Priestly office by his
   wife Martha, shortly before the commencement of the great Jewish war.
   [1160] [1161] To pass over the fabulous number of schools supposed to
   have existed in Jerusalem, tradition had it that, despite of this, the
   City only fell because of the neglect of the education of children.
   [1162] It was even deemed unlawful to live in a place where there was
   no school. [1163] Such a city deserved to be either destroyed or
   excommunicated. [1164]

   It would lead too far to give details about the appointment of, and
   provision for, teachers, the arrangements of the schools, the method of
   teaching, or the subjects of study, the more so as many of these
   regulations date from a period later than that under review. Suffice it
   that, from the teaching of the alphabet or of writing, onwards to the
   farthest limit of instruction in the most advanced Academies of the
   Rabbis, all is marked by extreme care, wisdom, accuracy, and a moral
   and religious purpose as the ultimate object. For a long time it was
   not uncommon to teach in the open air; [1165] but this must have been
   chiefly in connection with theological discussions, and the instruction
   of youths. But the children were gathered in the Synagogues, or in
   School-houses, [1166] where at first they either stood, teacher and
   pupils alike, or else sat on the ground in a semicircle, facing the
   teacher, as it were, literally to carry into practice the prophetic
   saying: Thine eyes shall see thy teachers.' [1167] The introduction of
   benches or chairs was of later date; but the principle was always the
   same, that in respect of accommodation there was no distinction between
   teacher and taught. [1168] Thus, encircled by his pupils, as by a crown
   of glory (to use the language of Maimonides), the teacher - generally
   the Chazzan, or Officer of the Synagogue [1169] - should impart to them
   the precious knowledge of the Law, with constant adaptation to their
   capacity, with unwearied patience, intense earnestness, strictness
   tempered by kindness, but, above all, with the highest object of their
   training ever in view. To keep children from all contact with vice; to
   train them to gentleness, even when bitterest wrong had been received;
   to show sin in its repulsiveness, rather than to terrify by its
   consequences; to train to strict truthfulness; to avoid all that might
   lead to disagreeable or indelicate thoughts; and to do all this without
   showing partiality, without either undue severity, or laxity of
   discipline, with judicious increase of study and work, with careful
   attention to thoroughness in acquiring knowledge - all this and more
   constituted the ideal set before the teacher, and made his office of
   such high esteem in Israel.

   Roughly classifying the subjects of study, it was held, that, up to ten
   years of age, the Bible exclusively should be the text-book; from ten
   to fifteen, the Mishnah, or traditional law; after that age, the
   student should enter on those theological discussions which occupied
   time and attention in the higher Academies of the Rabbis. [1170] Not
   that this progression would always be made. For, if after three, or, at
   most, five years of tuition - that is, after having fairly entered on
   Mishnic studies - the child had not shown decided aptitude, little hope
   was to be entertained of his future. The study of the Bible commenced
   with that of the Book of Leviticus. [1171] Thence it passed to the
   other parts of the Pentateuch; then to the Prophets; and, finally, to
   the Hagiographa. What now constitutes the Gemara or Talmud was taught
   in the Academies, to which access could not be gained till after the
   age of fifteen. Care was taken not to send a child too early to school,
   nor to overwork him when there. For this purpose the school-hours were
   fixed, and attendance shortened during the summer-months.

   The teaching in school would, of course, be greatly aided by the
   services of the Synagogue, and the deeper influences of home-life. We
   know that, even in the troublous times which preceded the rising of the
   Maccabees, the possession of parts or the whole of the Old Testament
   (whether in the original or the LXX. rendering) was so common, that
   during the great persecutions a regular search was made throughout the
   land for every copy of the Holy Scriptures, and those punished who
   possessed them. [1172] After the triumph of the Maccabees, these copies
   of the Bible would, of course, be greatly multiplied. And, although
   perhaps only the wealthy could have purchased a MS. of the whole Old
   Testament in Hebrew, yet some portion or portions of the Word of God,
   in the original, would form the most cherished treasure of every pious
   household. Besides, a school for Bible-study was attached to every
   academy, [1173] in which copies of the Holy Scripture would be kept.
   From anxious care to preserve the integrity of the text, it was deemed
   unlawful to make copies of small portions of a book of Scripture.
   [1174] But exception was made of certain sections which were copied for
   the instruction of children. Among them, the history of the Creation to
   that of the Flood; Lev. i.-ix.; and Numb. i.-x. 35, are specially
   mentioned. [1175]

   It was in such circumstances, and under such influences, that the early
   years of Jesus passed. To go beyond this, and to attempt lifting the
   veil which lies over His Child-History, would not only be presumptuous,
   [1176] but involve us in anachronisms. Fain would we know it, whether
   the Child Jesus frequented the Synagogue School; who was His teacher,
   and who those who sat beside Him on the ground, earnestly gazing on the
   face of Him Who repeated the sacrificial ordinances in the Book of
   Leviticus, that were all to be fulfilled in Him. But it is all a
   mystery of Godliness.' We do not even know quite certainly whether the
   school-system had, at that time, extended to far-off Nazareth; nor
   whether the order and method which have been described were universally
   observed at that time. In all probability, however, there was such a
   school in Nazareth, and, if so, the Child-Saviour would conform to the
   general practice of attendance. We may thus, still with deepest
   reverence, think of Him as learning His earliest earthly lesson from
   the Book of Leviticus. Learned Rabbis there were not in Nazareth -
   either then or afterwards. [1177] He would attend the services of the
   Synagogue, where Moses and the prophets were read, and, as afterwards
   by Himself, [1178] occasional addresses delivered. [1179] That His was
   pre-eminently a pious home in the highest sense, it seems almost
   irreverent to say. From His intimate familiarity with Holy Scripture,
   in its every detail, we may be allowed to infer that the home of
   Nazareth, however humble, possessed a precious copy of the Sacred
   Volume in its entirety. At any rate, we know that from earliest
   childhood it must have formed the meat and drink of the God-Man. The
   words of the Lord, as recorded by St. Matthew [1180] and St. Luke,
   [1181] also imply that the Holy Scriptures which He read were in the
   original Hebrew, and that they were written in the square, or Assyrian,
   characters. [1182] Indeed, as the Pharisees and Sadducees always
   appealed to the Scriptures in the original, Jesus could not have met
   them on any other ground, and it was this which gave such point to His
   frequent expostulations with them: Have ye not read?'

   But far other thoughts than theirs gathered around His study of the Old
   Testament Scriptures. When comparing their long discussions on the
   letter and law of Scripture with His references to the Word of God, it
   seems as if it were quite another book which was handled. As we gaze
   into the vast glory of meaning which He opens to us; follow the shining
   track of heavenward living to which He points; behold the lines of
   symbol, type, and prediction converging in the grand unity of that
   Kingdom which became reality in Him; or listen as, alternately, some
   question of His seems to rive the darkness, as with flash of sudden
   light, or some sweet promise of old to lull the storm, some earnest
   lesson to quiet the tossing waves - we catch faint, it may be far-off,
   glimpses of how, in that early Child-life, when the Holy Scriptures
   were His special study, He must have read them, and what thoughts must
   have been kindled by their light. And thus better than before can we
   understand it: And the Child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, filled
   with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon Him.'

     __________________________________________________________________

   [1084] And yet Keim speaks of his Hochherzigkeit and natürlicher
   Edelsinn! (Leben Jesu, i. 1. p. 184.) A much truer estimate is that of
   Schürer, Neutest. Zeitgesch. pp. 197, 198.

   [1085] See the horrible description of his living death in Jos. Ant.
   xvii. 6. 5.

   [1086] See the calculation in Wiesler's Synopse, pp. 56 and 444. The
   Dissertatio de Herode Magno,' by J.A. van der Chijs (Leyden, 1855), is
   very clear and accurate. Dr. Geikie adopts the manifest mistake of
   Caspari, that Herod died in January, 753, and holds that the Holy
   Family spent three years in Egypt. The repeated statement of Josephus
   that Herod died close upon the Passover should have sufficed to show
   the impossibility of that hypothesis. Indeed, there is scarcely any
   historical date on which competent writers are more agreed than that of
   Herod's death. See Schürer, Neutest. Zeitg., pp. 222, 223.

   [1087] Meg. Taan xi, 1, ed Warsh, p. 16 a.

   [1088] The Megillath Taanith itself, or Roll of Fasts,' does not
   mention the death of Herod. But the commentator adds to the dates 7th
   Kislev (Nov.) and 2nd Shebhat (Jan.), both manifestly incorrect, the
   notice that Herod had died - on the 2nd Shebhat, Jannai also - at the
   same time telling a story about the incarceration and liberatio of
   seventy of the Elders of Israel,' evidently a modification of Josephus'
   account of what passed in the Hiprodrome of Jericho. Accordingly, Grätz
   (Gesch. vol. iii. p. 427) and Derenbourg (pp. 101, 164) have regarded
   the 1st of Shebhat as really that of Herod's death. But this is
   impossible; and we know enough of the historical inaccuracy of the
   Rabbis not to attach any serious importance to their precise dates.

   [1089] Jos. War i. 23. 5.

   [1090] Jos. Ant. xvii. 6. 1; War i. 32. 7.

   [1091] Herod had married no less than ten times. See his genealogical
   table.

   [1092] Batanæa, Trachonitis, Auranitis, and Panias.

   [1093] Jos. War i. 23. 5.

   [1094] Ant. xvii 8. 2.

   [1095] Ant. xvii 8. 4; 9. 5.

   [1096] Ant. xvii 8. 4.

   [1097] Ant. xvii. 9. 1-3.

   [1098] Ant. xvii. 11. 1; War ii. 6. 1.

   [1099] I cannot conceive on what ground Keim (both in Schenkel's Bible
   Lex, and in his Jesu von Nazara') speaks of him as a pretender to the
   throne.

   [1100] This may have been the historical basis of the parable of our
   Lord in St. Luke xix. 12-27.

   [1101] The revenues of Antipas were 200 talents, and those of Philip
   100 talents.

   [1102] This is admitted even by Braun (Söhne d. Herodes, p. 8). Despite
   its pretentiousness this tractate is untrustworthy, being written in a
   party spirit (Jewish).

   [1103] We gather this from the expression, When he heard that Archelaus
   did reign.' Evidently Joseph had not heard who was Herod's successor,
   when he left Egypt. Archdeacon Farrar suggests, that the expression
   reigned' (as a king,' basileei - St. Matt. ii. 22) refers to the period
   before Augustus had changed his title from King' to Ethnarch. But this
   can scarcely be pressed, the word being used of other rule than that of
   a king, not only in the New Testament and in the Apocrypha, but by
   Josephus, and even by classical writers.

   [1104] The language of St. Matthew (ii. 22, 23) seems to imply express
   Divine direction not to enter the territory of Judæa. In that case he
   would travel along the coast-line till he passed into Galilee. The
   impression left is, that the settlement at Nazareth was not of his own
   choice.

   [1105] St. Luke ii. 40.

   [1106] Yeled, the newborn babe, as in Is. ix. 6; Yoneq, the suckling,
   Is. xi. 8; Olel, the suckling beginning to ask for food, Lam. iv. 4;
   Gamul, the weaned child, Is. xxviii. 9; Taph, the child clinging to its
   mother, Jer. xl. 7; Elem, a child becoming firm; Naar, the lad,
   literally, one who shakes himself free;' and Bachur, the ripened one.
   (See Sketches of Jewish Social Life,' pp. 103. 104.)

   [1107] This is still the common, almost universal, designation of
   Christ among the Jews.

   [1108] Comp. ch. iv. of this book.

   [1109] In accordance with Jer. xxiii. 5; xxxiii. 15; and especially
   Zech. iii 18.

   [1110] See Appendix IX.

   [1111] So in Be R. 76.

   [1112] Comp. Buxtorf, Lexicon Talm. p. 1383.

   [1113] All this becomes more evident by Delitzsch's ingenious
   suggestion (Zeitschr. fur luther. Theol. 1876, part iii. p. 402), that
   the real meaning, though not the literal rendering, of the words of St.
   Matthew, would be {hebrew} - for Nezer ['branch'] is His Name.'

   [1114] One of the most absurdly curious illustrations of this is the
   following: He who blows his nose in the presence of his Rabbi is worthy
   of death' (Erub, 99 a, line 11 from bottom). The dictum is supported by
   an alteration in the reading of Prov. viii. 36.

   [1115] Galilee covered the ancient possessions of Issachar, Zebulun,
   Naphtali, and Asher. In the time of Christ it stretched northwards to
   the possessions of Tyre on the one side, and to Syria on the other. On
   the south it was bounded by Samaria - Mount Carmel on the Western, and
   the district of Scythopolis on the eastern side, being here landmarks;
   while the Jordan and the Lake of Gennesaret formed the general eastern
   boundary line.' (Sketches of Jewish Soc. Life. p. 33.) It was divided
   into Upper and Lower Galilee - the former beginning where sycomores
   (not our sycamores) cease to grow.' Fishing in the Lake of Galilee was
   free to all (Baba K. 81 b).

   [1116] {hebrew} 'cantankerous' (?), Ned. 48 a.

   [1117] Siphré on Numb. x. 19, ed. Friedmann, 4 a; Chag. 14 a.

   [1118] Of which Jochanan, the son of Nuri, may here be regarded as the
   exponent.

   [1119] As in the relation between bridegroom and bride, the cessation
   of work the day before the Passover, &c.

   [1120] As in regard to animals lawful to be eaten, vows, &c.

   [1121] The doctrinal, or rather Halakhic, differences between Galilee
   and Judæa are partially noted by Lightfoot (Chronoger. Matth. praem.
   lxxxvi.), and by Hamburger (Real-Enc. i. p. 395).

   [1122] See Deutsch's Remains, p. 358.

   [1123] The differences of pronunciation and language are indicated by
   Lightfoot (u.s. lxxxvii.), and by Deutsch (u. s. pp. 357, 358). Several
   instances of ridiculous mistakes arising from it are recorded. Thus, a
   woman cooked for her husband two lentils ({hebrew})instead of two feet
   (of an animal, {hebrew}) as desired (Nedar. 66 b). On another occasion
   a woman malpronounced Come, I will give thee milk,' into Companion,
   butter devour thee!' (Erub. 53 b). In the same connection other similar
   stories are told. Comp. also Neubauer, Geogr. du Talmud, p. 184, G. de
   Rossi, della lingua prop. di Cristo, Dissert. I. passim.

   [1124] Erub. 53 b.

   [1125] The Rabbi asked: What road leads to Lydda? - using four words.
   The woman pointed out that, since it was not lawful to multiply speech
   with a woman, he should have asked: Whither to Lydda? - in two words.

   [1126] In fact, only four great Galilean Rabbis are mentioned. The
   Galileans are said to have inclined towards mystical (Kabbalistic?)
   pursuits.

   [1127] Gelpke, Jugendgesch, des Herrn, has, at least in our days,
   little value beyond its title.

   [1128] The words in spirit' are of doubtful authority. But their
   omission can be of no consequence, since the waxing strong' evidently
   refers to the mental development, as the subsequent clause shows.

   [1129] St. Luke ii. 40.

   [1130] Deut. xxi. 18-21.

   [1131] Prov. xxx. 17.

   [1132] See the notice of these rites at the circumcision of John the
   Baptist, in ch. iv. of his Book.

   [1133] Peah i. 1.

   [1134] Comp. Sketches of Jewish Social Life,' pp. 86-160, the
   literature there quoted: Duschak, Schulgesetzgebung d. alten Isr.; and
   Dr. Marcus, Pædagog. d. Isr. Volkes.

   [1135] Ber. 63 b.

   [1136] The counterpart is in Ecclus. xxx.

   [1137] Besides the holy women who are named in the Gospels, we would
   refer to the mothers of Zebedee's children and of Mark, to Dorcas,
   Lydia, Lois, Eunice, Priscilla, St. John's elect lady,' and others.

   [1138] On which Deut.vi. 4-9 and xi. 13-21 were inscribed.

   [1139] Jos. Ant. iv. 8. 13; Ber.iii. 3; Megill. i. 8; Moed K. iii.

   [1140] Ps. cxxi. 8.

   [1141] Some of its customs almost remind us of our 5th of November.

   [1142] The word brphos has no other meaning than that of infant' or
   babe.'

   [1143] 2 Tim. iii. 15; i. 5.

   [1144] Philo, Legat. ad Cajum, sec. 16. 31.

   [1145] Jos. Ag. Apion ii. 19.

   [1146] Jos. Ag. Apion ii. 26; comp. 1. 8, 12; ii. 27.

   [1147] Kidd, 29 a.

   [1148] Sanh. 99 b.

   [1149] Kidd, 30 a.

   [1150] Meg. 6 b.

   [1151] Sot. 22 a.

   [1152] Succ. 42 a.

   [1153] The Shema.

   [1154] Ab. iii. 9

   [1155] Comp. Sketches of Jewish Social Life,' pp. 159 &c. The enigmatic
   mode of wording and writing was very common. Thus, the year is marked
   by a verse, generally from Scripture, which contains the letters that
   give the numerical value of the year. These letters are indicated by
   marks above them.

   [1156] Ps. cxiii. - cxviii.

   [1157] Baba B. 21 a; Keth. 50 a.

   [1158] Jos. Ant. xvii. 6. 2.

   [1159] Baba B. 21 a.

   [1160] Yebam. 61 a; Yoma 18 a.

   [1161] He was succeeded by Matthias, the son of Theophilos, under whose
   Pontificate the war against Rome began.

   [1162] Shabb. 119 b.

   [1163] Sanh. 17 b.

   [1164] Shabb. u.s.

   [1165] Shabb. 127 a; Moed K. 16. a.

   [1166] Among the names by which the schools are designated there is
   also that of Ischoli, with its various derivations, evidently from the
   Greek schol, schola.

   [1167] Is. xxx. 20.

   [1168] The proof-passages from the Talmud are collated by Dr. Marcus
   (Pædagog. d. Isr. Volkes, ii. pp. 16, 17).

   [1169] For example, Shabb. 11 a.

   [1170] Ab. v. 21.

   [1171] Altingius (Academic. Dissert. p. 335) curiously suggests, that
   this was done to teach a child its guilt and the need of justification.
   The Rabbinical interpretation (Vayyikra R. 7) is at least equally
   far-fetched: that, as children are pure and sacrifices pure, it is
   fitting that the pure should busy themselves with the pure. The obvious
   reason seems, that Leviticus treated of the ordinances with which every
   Jew ought to have been acquainted.

   [1172] 1 Macc. i. 57; comp. Jos. Ant. xii. 5. 4.

   [1173] Jer. Meg. iii. 1, p. 73 d.

   [1174] Herzfeld (Gesch. d. V. Isr. iii. p. 267, note) strangely
   misquotes and misinterprets this matter. Comp. Dr. Müller, Massech.
   Sofer. p. 75.

   [1175] Sopher. v. 9, p. 25 b; Gitt. 60 a; Jer. Meg. 74 a; Tos. Yad. 2.

   [1176] The most painful instances of these are the legendary accounts
   of the early history of Christ in the Apocryphal Gospels (well collated
   by Keim, i. 2, pp. 413-468, passim). But later writers are
   unfortunately not wholly free from the charge.

   [1177] I must here protest against the introduction of imaginary
   Evening Scenes in Nazareth,' when, according to Dr. Geikie, friends or
   neighbours of Joseph's circle would meet for an hour's quiet gossip.'
   Dr. Geikie here introduces as specimens of this quiet gossip' a number
   of Rabbinic quotations from the German translation in Dukes'
   Rabbinische Blumenlese.' To this it is sufficient answer: 1. There were
   no such learned Rabbis in Nazareth. 2. If there had been, they would
   not have been visitors in the house of Joseph. 3. If they had been
   visitors there, they would not have spoken what Dr. Geikie quotes from
   Dukes, since some of the extracts are from mediæval books and only one
   a proverbial expression. 4. Even if they had so spoken, it would at
   least have been in the words which Dukes has translated, without the
   changes and additions which Dr. Geikie has introduced in some
   instances.

   [1178] St. Luke iv. 16.

   [1179] See Book III., the chapter on The Synagogue of Nazareth.'

   [1180] St. Matt. v. 18.

   [1181] St. Luke xvi. 17.

   [1182] This may be gathered even from such an expression as One iota,
   or one little hook' - not tittle' as in the A.V.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER X.
IN THE HOUSE OF HIS HEAVENLY, AND IN THE HOME OF HIS EARTHLY FATHER - THE TEMPLE
OF JERUSALEM - THE RETIREMENT AT NAZARETH.

   (St. Luke ii. 41-52.)

   Once only is the great silence, which lies on the history of Christ's
   early life, broken. It is to record what took place on His first visit
   to the Temple. What this meant, even to an ordinary devout Jew, may
   easily be imagined. Where life and religion were so intertwined, and
   both in such organic connection with the Temple and the people of
   Israel, every thoughtful Israelite must have felt as if his real life
   were not in what was around, but ran up into the grand unity of the
   people of God, and were compassed by the halo of its sanctity. To him
   it would be true in the deepest sense, that, so to speak, each
   Israelite was born in Zion, as, assuredly, all the well-springs of his
   life were there. [1183] It was, therefore, not merely the natural
   eagerness to see the City of their God and of their fathers, glorious
   Jerusalem; nor yet the lawful enthusiasm, national or religious, which
   would kindle at the thought of our feet' standing within those gates,
   through which priests, prophets, and kings had passed; but far deeper
   feelings which would make glad, when it was said: Let us go into the
   house of Jehovah.' They were not ruins to which precious memories
   clung, nor did the great hope seem to lie afar off, behind the
   evening-mist. But glorious things were spoken of Zion, the City of God'
   - in the past, and in the near future the thrones of David' were to be
   set within her walls, and amidst her palaces. [1184]

   In strict law, personal observance of the ordinances, and hence
   attendance on the feasts at Jerusalem, devolved on a youth only when he
   was of age, that is, at thirteen years. Then he became what was called
   a son of the Commandment,' or of the Torah.' [1185] But, as a matter of
   fact, the legal age was in this respect anticipated by two years, or at
   least by one. [1186] It was in accordance with this custom, that,
   [1187] on the first Pascha after Jesus had passed His twelfth year, His
   Parents took Him with them in the company' of the Nazarenes to
   Jerusalem. The text seems to indicate, that it was their wont [1188] to
   go up to the Temple; and we mark that, although women were not bound to
   make such personal appearance, [1189] Mary gladly availed herself of
   what seems to have been the direction of Hillel (followed also by other
   religious women, mentioned in Rabbinic writings), to go up to the
   solemn services of the Sanctuary. Politically, times had changed. The
   weak and wicked rule of Archelaus had lasted only nine years, [1190]
   when, in consequence of the charges against him, he was banished to
   Gaul. Judæa, Samaria and Idumæa were now incorporated into the Roman
   province of Syria, under its Governor, or Legate. The special
   administration of that part of Palestine was, however, entrusted to a
   Procurator, whose ordinary residence was at Cæsarea. It will be
   remembered, that the Jews themselves had desired some such arrangement,
   in te vain hope that, freed from the tyranny of the Herodians, they
   might enjoy the semi-independence of their brethren in the Grecian
   cities. But they found it otherwise. Their privileges were not secured
   to them; their religious feelings and prejudices were constantly,
   though perhaps not intentionally, outraged; [1191] and their Sanhedrin
   shorn of its real power, though the Romans would probably not interfere
   in what might be regarded as purely religious questions. Indeed, the
   very presence of the Roman power in Jerusalem was a constant offence,
   and must necessarily have issued in a life and death struggle. One of
   the first measures of the new Legate of Syria, P. Sulpicius Quirinius,
   [1192] after confiscating the ill-gotten wealth of Archelaus, was to
   order a census in Palestine, with the view of fixing the taxation of
   the country. [1193] The popular excitement which this called forth was
   due, probably, not so much to opposition on principle, [1194] as to
   this, that the census was regarded as the badge of servitude, and
   incompatible with the Theocratic character of Israel. [1195] Had a
   census been considered absolutely contrary to the Law, the leading
   Rabbis would never have submitted to it; [1196] nor would the popular
   resistance to the measure of Quirinius have been quelled by the
   representations of the High-Priest Joazar. But, although through his
   influence the census was allowed to be taken, the popular agitation was
   not suppressed. Indeed, that movement formed part of the history of the
   time, and not only affected political and religious parties in the
   land, but must have been presented to the mind of Jesus Himself, since,
   as will be shown, it had a representative within His own family circle.

   This accession of Herod, misnamed the Great, marked a period in Jewish
   history, which closed with the war of despair against Rome and the
   flames of Jerusalem and the Temple. It gave rise to the appearance of
   what Josephus, despite his misrepresentation of them, rightly calls a
   fourth party - besides the Pharisees, Sadducees, and Essenes - that of
   the Nationalists. [1197] A deeper and more independent view of the
   history of the times would, perhaps, lead us to regard the whole
   country as ranged either with or against that party. As afterwards
   expressed in its purest and simplest form, their watchword was,
   negatively, to call no human being their absolute lord; [1198]
   positively, that God alone was to lead as absolute Lord. [1199] It was,
   in fact, a revival of the Maccabean movement, perhaps more fully in its
   national than in its religious aspect, although the two could scarcely
   be separated in Israel, and their motto almost reads like that which
   according to some, furnished the letters whence the name Maccabee
   [1200] was composed: Mi Camochah Baelim Jehovah, Who like Thee among
   the gods, Jehovah?' [1201] It is characteristic of the times and
   religious tendencies, that their followers were no more called, as
   before, Assideans or Chasidim, the pious,' but Zealots (zelotai) or by
   the Hebrew equivalent Qannaim (Cananæans, not Canaanites,' as in A.V.)
   The real home of that party was not Judæa nor Jerusalem, but Galilee.

   Quite other, and indeed antagonistic, tendencies prevailed in the
   stronghold of the Herodians, Sadducees, and Pharisees. Of the latter
   only a small portion had any real sympathy with the national movement.
   Each party followed its own direction. The Essenes, absorbed in
   theosophic speculations, not untinged with Eastern mysticism, withdrew
   from all contact with the world, and practiced an ascetic life. With
   them, whatever individuals may have felt, no such movement could have
   originated; nor yet with the Herodians or Boethusians, who combined
   strictly Pharisaic views with Herodian political partisanship; nor yet
   with the Sadducees; nor, finally, with what constituted the great bulk
   of the Rabbinist party, the School of Hillel. But the brave, free
   Highlanders of Galilee, and of the region across their glorious lake,
   seemed to have inherited the spirit of Jephthah, [1202] and to have
   treasured as their ideal - alas! often wrongly apprehended - their own
   Elijah, as, descending in wild, shaggy garb from the mountains of
   Gilead, he did battle against all the might of Ahab and Jezebel. Their
   enthusiasm could not be kindled by the logical subtleties of the
   Schools, but their hearts burned within them for their God, their land,
   their people, their religion, and their freedom.

   It was in Galilee, accordingly, that such wild, irregular resistance to
   Herod at the outset of his career, as could be offered, was organised
   by guerilla bands, which traversed the country, and owned one Ezekias
   as their leader. Although Josephus calls them robbers,' a far different
   estimate of them obtained in Jerusalem, where, as we remember, the
   Sanhedrin summoned Herod to answer for the execution of Esekias. What
   followed is told in substantially the same manner, though with
   difference of form [1203] and, sometimes, nomenclature, by Josephus,
   [1204] and in the Talmud. [1205] The story has already been related in
   another connection. Suffice it that, after the accession of Herod, the
   Sanhedrin became a shadow of itself. It was packed with Sadducees and
   Priests of the King's nomination, and with Doctors of the canon-law,
   whose only aim was to pursue in peace their subtleties; who had not,
   and, from their contempt of the people, could not have, any real
   sympathy with national aspirations; and whose ideal heavenly Kingdom
   was a miraculous, heaven-instituted, absolute rule of Rabbis.
   Accordingly, the national movement, as it afterwards developed,
   received neither the sympathy nor the support of leading Rabbis.
   Perhaps the most gross manifestation of this was exhibited, shortly
   before the taking of Jerusalem, by R. Jochanan ben Saccai, the most
   renowned among its teachers. Almost unmoved he had witnessed the
   portent of the opening of the Temple-doors by an unseen Hand, which, by
   an interpretation of Zech. xi. 1, was popularly regarded as betokening
   its speedy destruction. [1206] [1207] There is cynicism, as well as
   want of sympathy, in the story recorded by tradition, that when, in the
   straits of famine during the siege, Jochanan saw people eagerly
   feasting on soup made from straw, he scouted the idea of such a
   garrison resisting Vespasian and immediately resolved to leave the
   city. [1208] In fact, we have distinct evidence that R. Jochanan had,
   as leader of the School of Hillel, used all his influence, although in
   vain, to persuade the people to submission to Rome. [1209]

   We can understand it, how this school had taken so little interest in
   anything purely national. Generally only one side of the character of
   Hillel has been presented by writers, and even this in greatly
   exaggerated language. His much lauded gentleness, peacefulness, and
   charity were rather negative than positive qualities. He was a
   philosophic Rabbi, whose real interest lay in a far other direction
   than that of sympathy with the people - and whose motto seemed, indeed,
   to imply, We, the sages, are the people of God; but this people, who
   know not the Law, are curse.' [1210] A far deeper feeling, and intense,
   though misguided earnestness pervaded the School of Shammai. It was in
   the minority, but it sympathised with the aspirations of the people. It
   was not philosophic nor eclectic, but intensely national. It opposed
   all approach to, and by, strangers; it dealt harshly with proselytes,
   [1211] even the most distinguished (such as Akylas or Onkelos); [1212]
   it passed, by first murdering a number of Hillelites who had come to
   the deliberative assembly, eighteen decrees, of which the object was to
   prevent all intercourse with Gentiles; [1213] and it furnished leaders
   or supporters of the national movement.

   We have marked the rise of the Nationalist party in Galilee at the time
   of Herod's first appearance on the scene, and learned how mercilessly
   he tried to suppress it: first, by the execution of Ezekias and his
   adherents, and afterwards, when he became King of Judæa, by the
   slaughter of the Sanhedrists. The consequence of this unsparing
   severity was to give Rabbinism a different direction. The School of
   Hillel which henceforth commanded the majority, were men of no
   political colour, theological theorists, self-seeking Jurists, vain
   rather than ambitious. The minority, represented by the School of
   Shammai, were Nationalists. Defective and even false as both tendencies
   were, there was certainly more hope, as regarded the Kingdom of God, of
   the Nationalists than of the Sophists and Jurists. It was, of course,
   the policy of Herod to suppress all national aspirations. No one
   understood the meaning of Jewish Nationalism so well as he; no one ever
   opposed it so sytematically. There was internal fitness, so to speak,
   in his attempt to kill the King of the Jews among the infants of
   Bethlehem. The murder of the Sanhedrists, with the consequent new
   anti-Messianic tendency of Rabbinism, was one measure in that
   direction; the various appointments which Herod made to the
   High-Priesthood another. And yet it was not easy, even in those times,
   to deprive the Pontificate of its power and influence. The High-Priest
   was still the representative of the religious life of the people, and
   he acted on all occasions, when the question under discussion was not
   one exclusively of subtle canon-law, as the President of the Sanhedrin,
   in which, indeed, the members of his family had evidently seat and
   vote. [1214] The four families [1215] from which, with few exceptions,
   the High-Priest - however often changed - were chosen, absorbed the
   wealth, and commanded the influence, of a state-endowed establishment,
   in its worst times. It was, therefore, of the utmost importance to make
   wise choice of the High-Priest. With the exception of the brief tenure
   by Aristobulus, the last of the Maccabees - whose appointment, too soon
   followed by his murder, was at the time a necessity - all the Herodian
   High-Priests were non-Palestinians. A keener blow than this could not
   have been dealt at Nationalism.

   The same contempt for the High-Priesthood characterised the brief reign
   of Archelaus. On his death-bed, Herod had appointed to the Pontificate
   Joazar, a son of Boethos, the wealthy Alexandrian priest, whose
   daughter, Mariamme II., he had married. The Boethusian family, allied
   to Herod, formed a party - the Herodians - who combined strict
   Pharisaic views with devotion to the reigning family. [1216] Joazar
   took the popular part against Archelaus, on his accession. For this he
   was deprived of his dignity in favour of another son of Boethos,
   Eleazar by name. But the mood of Archelaus was fickle - perhaps he was
   distrustful of the family of Boethos. At any rate, Eleazar had to give
   place to Jesus, the son of Sië, an otherwise unknown individual. At the
   time of the taxing of Quirinius we find Joazar again in office, [1217]
   apparently restored to it by the multitude, which, having taken matters
   into its own hands at the change of government, recalled one who had
   formerly favoured national aspirations. [1218] It is thus that we
   explain his influence with the people, in persuading them to submit to
   the Roman taxation.

   But if Joazar had succeeded with the unthinking populace, he failed to
   conciliate the more advanced of his own party, and, as the event
   proved, the Roman authorities also, whose favour he had hoped to gain.
   It will be remembered, that the Nationalist party - or Zealots,' as
   they were afterwards called - first appeared in those guerilla-bands
   which traversed Galilee under the leadership of Ezekias, whom Herod
   executed. But the National party was not destroyed, only held in check,
   during his iron reign. It was once more the family of Ezekias that
   headed the movement. During the civil war which followed the accession
   of Archelaus, or rather was carried on while he was pleading his cause
   in Rome, the standard of the Nationalists was again raised in Galilee.
   Judas, the son of Ezekias, took possession of the city of Sepphoris,
   and armed his followers from the royal arsenal there. At that time, as
   we know, the High-Priest Joazar sympathised, at least indirectly, with
   the Nationalists. The rising, which indeed was general throughout
   Palestine, was suppressed by fire and sword, and the sons of Herod were
   enabled to enter on their possessions. But when, after the deposition
   of Archelaus, Joazar persuaded the people to submit to the taxing of
   Quirinius, Judas was not disposed to follow what he regarded as the
   treacherous lead of the Pontiff. In conjunction with a Shammaite Rabbi,
   Sadduk, he raised again the standard of revolt, although once more
   unsuccessfully. [1219] How the Hillelites looked upon this movement, we
   gather even from the slighting allusion of Gamaliel. [1220] The family
   of Ezekias furnished other martyrs to the National cause. The two sons
   of Judas died for it on the cross in 46 a.d. [1221] Yet a third son,
   Manahem, who, from the commencement of the war against Rome, was one of
   the leaders of the most fanatical Nationalists, the Sicarii - the
   Jacobins of the party, as they have been aptly designated - died under
   unspeakable sufferings, [1222] while a fouth member of the family,
   Eleazar, was the leader of Israel's forlorn hope, and nobly died at
   Masada, in the closing drama of the Jewish war of independence. [1223]
   Of such stuff were the Galilean Zealots made. But we have to take this
   intense Nationalist tendency also into account in the history of Jesus,
   the more so that at least one of His disciples, and he a member of His
   family, had at one time belonged to the party. Only the Kingdom of
   which Jesus was the King was, as He Himself said, not of this world,
   and of far different conception from that for which the Nationalists
   longed.

   At the time when Jesus went up to the feast, Quirinius was, as already
   stated, Governor of Syria. The taxing and the rising of Judas were
   alike past; and the Roman Governor, dissatisfied with the trimming of
   Joazar, and distrustful of him, had appointed in his stead Ananos, the
   son of Seth, the Annas of infamous memory in the New Testament. With
   brief interruption, he or his son held the Pontifical office till,
   under the Procuratorship of Pilate, Caiaphas, the son-in-law of Annas,
   succeeded to that dignity. It has already been stated that, subject to
   the Roman Governors of Syria, the rule of Palestine devolved on
   Procurators, of whom Coponius was the first. Of him and his immediate
   successors - Marcus Ambivius, [1224] Annius Rufus, [1225] and Valerius
   Gratus, [1226] we know little. They were, indeed, guilty of the most
   grievous fiscal oppressions, but they seem to have respected, so far as
   was in them, the religious feelings of the Jews. We know, that they
   even removed the image of the Emperor from the standards of the Roman
   soldiers before marching them into Jerusalem, so as to avoid the
   appearance of a cultus of the Cæsars. It was reserved for Pontius
   Pilate to force this hated emblem on the Jews, and otherwise to set
   their most sacred feelings at defiance. But we may notice, even at this
   stage, with what critical periods in Jewish history the public
   appearance of Christ synchronised. His first visit to the Temple
   followed upon the Roman possession of Judæa, the taxing, and the
   national rising, as also the institution of Annas to the
   High-Priesthood. And the commencement of His public Ministry was
   contemporaneous with the accession of Pilate, and the institution of
   Caiaphas. Whether viewed subjectively or objectively, these things also
   have a deep bearing upon the history of the Christ.

   It was, as we reckon it, in spring a.d. 9, that Jesus for the first
   time went up to the Paschal Feast in Jerusalem. Coponius would be there
   as the Procurator; and Annas ruled in the Temple as High-Priest, when
   He appeared among its doctors. But far other than political thoughts
   must have occupied the mind of Christ. Indeed, for a time a brief calm
   had fallen upon the land. There was nothing to provoke active
   resistance, and the party of the Zealots, although existing, and
   striking deeper root in the hearts of the people, was, for the time,
   rather what Josephus called it, the philosphical party' - their minds
   busy with an ideal, which their hands were not yet preparing to make a
   reality. And so, when, according to ancient wont, [1227] the festive
   company from Nazareth, soon swelled by other festive bands, went up to
   Jerusalem, chanting by the way those Psalms of Ascent' [1228] to the
   accompaniment of the flute, they might implicitly yield themselves to
   the spiritual thoughts kindled by such words.

   When the pilgrims' feet stood within the gates of Jerusalem, there
   could have been no difficulty in finding hospitality, however crowded
   the City may have been on such occasions [1229] - the more so when we
   remember the extreme simplicity of Eastern manners and wants, and the
   abundance of provisions which the many sacrifices of the season would
   supply. But on this subject, also, the Evangelic narrative keeps
   silence. Glorious as a view of Jerusalem must have seemed to a child
   coming to it for the first time from the retirement of a Galilean
   village, we must bear in mind, that He Who now looked upon it was not
   an ordinary Child. Nor are we, perhaps, mistaken in the idea that the
   sight of its grandeur would, as on another occasion, [1230] awaken in
   Him not so much feelings of admiration, which might have been akin to
   those of pride, as of sadness, though He may as yet have been scarcely
   conscious of its deeper reason. But the one all-engrossing thought
   would be of the Temple. This, his first visit to its halls, seems also
   to have called out the first outspoken - and may we not infer, the
   first conscious - thought of that Temple as the House of His Father,
   and with it the first conscious impulse of his Mission and Being. Here
   also it would be the higher meaning, rather than the structure and
   appearance, of the Temple, that would absorb the mind. And yet there
   was sufficient, even in the latter, to kindle enthusiasm. As the
   pilgrim ascended the Mount, crested by that symmetrically proportioned
   building, which could hold within its gigantic girdle not fewer than
   210,000 persons, his wonder might well increase at every step. The
   Mount itself seemed like an island, abruptly rising from out deep
   valleys, surrounded by a sea of walls, palaces, streets, and houses,
   and crowned by a mass of snowy marble and glittering gold, rising
   terrace upon terrace. Altogether it measured a square of about 1,000
   feet, or, to give a more exact equivalent of the measurements furnished
   by the Rabbis, 927 feet. At its north-western angle, and connected with
   it, frowned the Castle of Antonia, held by the Roman garrison. The
   lofty walls were pierced by massive gates - the unused gate (Tedi) on
   the north; the Susa Gate on the east, which opened on the arched
   roadway to the Mount of Olives; [1231] the two so-called Huldah'
   (probably, weasel') gates, which led by tunnels [1232] from the
   priest-suburb Ophel into the outer Court; and, finally, four gates on
   the west.

   Within the gates ran all around covered double colonnades, with here
   are there benches for those who resorted thither for prayer or for
   conference. The most magnificent of those was the southern, or twofold
   double colonnade, with a wide space between; the most venerable, the
   ancient Solomon's Porch,' or eastern colonnade. Entering from the
   Xystus bridge, and under the tower of John, [1233] one would pass along
   the southern colonnade (over the tunnel of the Huldah-gates) to its
   eastern extremity, over which another tower rose, probably the
   pinnacle' of the history of the Temptation. From this height yawned the
   Kedron valley 450 feet beneath. From that lofty pinnacle the priest
   each morning watched and announced the earliest streak of day. Passing
   along the eastern colonnade, or Solomon's Porch, we would, if the
   description of the Rabbis is trustworthy, have reached the Susa Gate,
   the carved representation of that city over the gateway reminding us of
   the Eastern Dispersion. Here the standard measures of the Temple are
   said to have been kept; and here, also, we have to locate the first or
   lowest of the three Sanhedrins, which, according to the Mishnah, [1234]
   held their meetings in the Temple; the second, or intermediate Court of
   Appeal, being in the Court of the Priests' (probably close to the
   Nicanor Gate); and the highest, that of the Great Sanhedrin, at one
   time in the Hall of Hewn Square Stones' (Lishkath ha-Gazith.)

   Passing out of these colonnades,' or porches,' you entered the Court of
   the Gentiles,' or what the Rabbis called the Mount of the House,' which
   was widest on the west side, and more and more narrow respectively on
   the east, the south, and the north. This was called the Chol, or
   profane' place to which Gentiles had access. Here must have been the
   market for the sale of sacrificial animals, the tables of the
   money-changers, and places for the sale of other needful articles.
   [1235] [1236] Advancing within this Court, you reached a low
   breast-wall (the Soreg), which marked the space beyond which no
   Gentile, nor Levitically unclean person, might proceed - tablets,
   bearing inscriptions to that effect, warning them off. Thirteen
   openings admitted into the inner part of the Court. Thence fourteen
   steps led up to the Chel or Terrace, which was bounded by the wall of
   the Temple-buildings in the stricter sense. A flight of steps led up to
   the massive, splendid gates. The two on the west side seem to have been
   of no importance, so far as the worshippers were concerned, and
   probably intended for the use of workmen. North and south were four
   gates. [1237] But the most splendid gate was that to the east, termed
   the Beautiful.' [1238]

   Entering by the latter, you came into the Court of the Women, so called
   because the women occupied in it two elevated and separated galleries,
   which, however, filled only part of the Court. Fifteen steps led up to
   the Upper Court, which was bounded by a wall, and where was the
   celebrated Nicanor Gate, covered with Corinthian brass. Here the
   Levites, who conducted the musical part of the service, were placed. In
   the Court of the Women were the Treasury and the thirteen Trumpets,'
   while at each corner were chambers or halls, destined for various
   purposes. Similarly, beyond the fifteen steps, there were repositories
   for the musical instruments. The Upper Court was divided into two parts
   by a boundary - the narrow part forming the Court of Israel, and the
   wider that of the Priests, in which were the great Altar and the Laver.

   The Sanctuary itself was on a higher terrace than that Court of the
   Priests. Twelve steps led up to its Porch, which extended beyond it on
   either side (north and south). Here, in separate chambers, all that was
   necessary for the sacrificial service was kept. On two marble tables
   near the entrance the old shewbread which was taken out, and the new
   that was brought in, were respectively placed. The Porch was adorned by
   votive presents, conspicuous among them a massive golden vine. A
   two-leaved gate opened into the Sanctuary itself, which was divided
   into two parts. The Holy Place had the Golden Candlestick (south), the
   Table of Shewbread (north), and the Golden Altar of Incense between
   them. A heavy double veil concealed the entrance to the Most Holy
   Place, which in the second Temple was empty, nothing being there but
   the piece of rock, called the Ebhen Shethiyah, or Foundation Stone,
   which, according to tradition, covered the mouth of the pit, and on
   which, it was thought, the world was founded. Nor does all this convey
   an adequate idea of the vastness of the Temple-buildings. For all
   around the Sanctuary and each of the Courts were various chambers and
   out-buildings, which served different purposes connected with the
   Services of the Temple. [1239]

   In some part of this Temple, sitting in the midst of the Doctors,
   [1240] both hearing them and asking them questions,' we must look for
   the Child Jesus on the third and the two following days of the Feast on
   which He first visited the Sanctuary. Only on the two first days of the
   Feast of Passover was personal attendance in the Temple necessary. With
   the third day commenced the so-called half-holydays, when it was lawful
   to return to one's home [1241] - a provision of which, no doubt, many
   availed themselves. Indeed, there was really nothing of special
   interest to detain the pilgrims. For, the Passover had been eaten, the
   festive sacrifice (or Chagigah) offered, and the first ripe barely
   reaped and brought to the Temple, and waved as the Omer of first flour
   before the Lord. Hence, in view of the well-known Rabbinic provision,
   the expression in the Gospel-narrative concerning the Parents' of
   Jesus, when they had fulfilled the days,' [1242]   cannot necessarily
   imply that Joseph and the Mother of Jesus had remained in Jerusalem
   during the whole Paschal week. [1243] On the other hand, the
   circumstances connected with the presence of Jesus could not have been
   found among the Doctors after the close of the Feast. The first
   question here is as to the locality in the Temple, where the scene has
   to be laid. It has, indeed, been commonly supposed that there was a
   Synagogue in the Temple; but of this there is, to say the least, no
   historical evidence. [1244] But even if such had existed, the worship
   and addresses of the Synagogue would not have offered any opportunity
   for the questioning on the part of Jesus which the narrative implies.
   Still more groundless is the idea that there was in the Temple
   something like a Beth ha-Midrash, or theological Academy, not to speak
   of the circumstance that a child of twelve would not, at any time, have
   been allowed to take part in its discussions. But there were occasions
   on which the Temple became virtually, though not formally, a Beth
   ha-Midrash. For we read in the Talmud, [1245] that the members of the
   Temple-Sanhedrin, who on ordinary days sat as a Court of Appeal, from
   the close of the Morning-to the time of the Evening-Sacrifice, were
   wont on Sabbaths and feast-days to come out upon the Terrace' of the
   Temple, and there to teach. In such popular instruction the utmost
   latitude of questioning would be given. It is in this audience, which
   sat on the ground, surrounding and mingling with the Doctors - and
   hence during, not after the Feast - that we must seek the Child Jesus.

   But we have yet to show that the presence and questioning of a Child of
   that age did not necessarily imply anything so extraordinary, as to
   convey the idea of supernaturalness to those Doctors or others in the
   audience. Jewish tradition gives other instances of precocious and
   strangely advanced students. Besides, scientific theological learning
   would not be necessary to take part in such popular discussions. If we
   may judge from later arrangements, not only in Babylon, but in
   Palestine, there were two kinds of public lectures, and two kinds of
   students. The first, or more scientific class, was designated Kallah
   (literally, bride), and its attendants Beney-Kallah (children of the
   bride). These lectures were delivered in the last month of summer
   (Elul), before the Feast of the New Year, and in the last winter month
   (Adar), immediately before the Feast of Passover. They implied
   considerable preparation on the part of the lecturing Rabbis, and at
   least some Talmudic knowledge on the part of the attendants. On the
   other hand, there were Students of the Court (Chatsatsta, and in
   Babylon Tarbitsa), who during ordinary lectures sat separated from the
   regular students by a kind of hedge, outside, as it were in the Court,
   some of whom seem to have been ignorant even of the Bible. The lectures
   addressed to such a general audience would, of course, be of a very
   different character. [1246]

   But if there was nothing so unprecedented as to render His Presence and
   questioning marvellous, yet all who heard Him were amazed' at His
   combinative insight' [1247] and discerning answers.' [1248] We scarcely
   venture to inquire towards what His questioning had been directed.
   Judging by what we know of such discussion, we infer that they may have
   been connected with the Paschal solemnities. Grave Paschal questions
   did arise. Indeed, the great Hillel obtained his rank as chief when he
   proved to the assembled Doctors that the Passover might be offered even
   on the Sabbath. [1249] Many other questions might arise on the subject
   of the Passover. Or did the Child Jesus - as afterwards, in connection
   with the Messianic teaching [1250] - lead up by His questions to the
   deeper meaning of the Paschal solemnities, as it was to be unfolded,
   when Himself was offered up, the Lamb of God, Which taketh away the sin
   of the world?'

   Other questions also almost force themselves on the mind - most notably
   this: whether on the occasion of this His first visit to the Temple,
   the Virgin-Mother had told her Son the history of His Infancy, and of
   what had happened when, for the first time, He had been brought to the
   Temple. It would almost seem so, if we might judge from the contrast
   between the Virgin-Mother's complaint about the search of His father
   and of her, and His own emphatic appeal to the business of His Father.
   But most surprising, truly wonderful it must have seemed to Joseph, and
   even to the Mother of Jesus, that the meek, quiet Child should have
   been found in such company, and so engaged. It must have been quite
   other than what, from His past, they would have expected; or they would
   not have taken it for granted, when they left Jerusalem, that He was
   among their kinsfolk and acquaintance, perhaps mingling with the
   children. Nor yet would they, in such case, after they missed Him at
   the first night's halt - at Sichem, [1251] if the direct road north,
   through Samaria, [1252] was taken (or, according to the Mishnah, at
   Akrabah [1253] ) - have so anxiously sought Him by the way, [1254] and
   in Jerusalem; nor yet would they have been amazed' when they found Him
   in the assembly of the Doctors. The reply of Jesus to the
   half-reproachful, half-relieved expostulation of them who had sought
   Him sorrowing' these three days, [1255] sets clearly these three things
   before us. He had been so entirely absorbed by the awakening thought of
   His Being and Mission, however kindled, as to be not only neglectful,
   but forgetful of all around. Nay, it even seemed to Him impossible to
   understand how they could have sought Him, and not known where He had
   lingered. Secondly: we may venture to say, that He now realised that
   this was emphatically His Father's House. And, thirdly: so far as we
   can judge, it was then and there that, for the first time, He felt the
   strong and irresistible impulse - that Divine necessity of His Being -
   to be about His Father's business.' [1256] We all, when first awakening
   to spiritual consciousness - or, perhaps, when for the first time
   taking part in the feast of the Lord's House - may, and, learning from
   His example, should, make this the hour of decision, in which heart and
   life shall be wholly consecrated to the business' of our Father. But
   there was far more than this in the bearing of Christ on this occasion.
   That forgetfulness of His Child-life was a sacrifice - a sacrifice of
   self; that entire absorption in His Father's business, without a
   thought of self, either in the gratification of curiosity, the
   acquisition of knowledge, or personal ambition - a consecration of
   Himself unto God. It was the first manifestation of His passive and
   active obedience to the Will of God. Even at this stage, it was the
   forth-bursting of the inmost meaning of His Life: My meat is to do the
   Will of Him that sent Me, and to finish His work.' And yet this
   awakening of the Christ-consciousness on His first visit to the Temple,
   partial, and perhaps even temporary, as it may have been, seems itself
   like the morning-dawn, which from the pinnacle of the Temple the Priest
   watched, ere he summoned his waiting brethren beneath to offer the
   early sacrifice.

   From what we have already learned of this History, we do not wonder
   that the answer of Jesus came to His parents as a fresh surprise. For,
   we can only understand what we perceive in its totality. But here each
   fresh manifestation came as something separate and new - not as part of
   a whole; and therefore as a surprise, of which the purport and meaning
   could not be understood, except in its organic connection and as a
   whole. And for the true human development of the God-Man, what was the
   natural was also the needful process, even as it was best for the
   learning of Mary herself, and for the future reception of His teaching.
   These three subsidiary reasons may once more be indicated here in
   explanation of the Virgin-Mother's seeming ignorance of her Son's true
   character: the necessary gradualness of such a revelation; the
   necessary development of His own consciousness; and the fact, that
   Jesus could not have been subject to His Parents, nor had true and
   proper human training, if they had clearly known that He was the
   essential Son of God.

   A further, though to us it seems a downward step, was His quiet,
   immediate, unquestioning return to Nazareth with His Parents, and His
   willing submission [1257] to them while there. It was self-denial,
   self-sacrifice, self-consecration to His Mission, with all that it
   implied. It was not self-exinanition but self-submission, all the more
   glorious in proportion to the greatness of that Self. This constant
   contrast before her eyes only deepened in the heart of Mary the
   everpresent impression of all those matters,' [1258] of which she was
   the most cognisant. She was learning to spell out the word Messiah, as
   each of those matters' taught her one fresh letter in it, and she
   looked at them all in the light of the Nazareth-Sun.

   With His return to Nazareth began Jesus' Life of youth and early
   manhood, with all of inward and outward development, of heavenly and
   earthly approbation which it carried. [1259] Whether or not He went to
   Jerusalem on recurring Feasts, we know not, and need not inquire. For
   only once during that period - on His first visit to the Temple, and in
   the awakening of His Youth-Life - could there have been such outward
   forth-bursting of His real Being and Mission. Other influences were at
   their silent work to weld His inward and outward development, and to
   determine the manner of His later Manifesting of Himself. We assume
   that the School-education of Jesus must have ceased soon after His
   return to Nazareth. Henceforth the Nazareth-influences on the Life and
   Thinking of Jesus may be grouped - and progressively as He advanced
   from youth to manhood - under these particulars: Home, Nature, and
   Prevailing Ideas.

   1. Home. Jewish Home-Life, especially in the country, was of the
   simplest. Even in luxurious Alexandria it seems often to have been
   such, alike as regarded the furnishing of the house, and the provisions
   of the table. [1260] The morning and midday meal must have been of the
   plainest, and even the larger evening meal of the simplest, in the home
   at Nazareth. Only the Sabbath and festivals, whether domestic or
   public, brought what of the best lay within reach. But Nazareth was not
   the city of the wealthy or influential, and such festive
   evening-entertainments, with elaborate ceremoniousness of reception,
   arranging of guests according to rank, and rich spread of board, would
   but rarely, if ever, be witnessed in those quiet homes. The same
   simplicity would prevail in dress and manners. [1261] But close and
   loving were the bonds which drew together the members of a family, and
   deep the influence which they exercised on each other. We cannot here
   discuss the vexed question whether the brothers and sisters' of Jesus
   were such in the real sense, or step-brothers and sisters, or else
   cousins, though it seems to us as if the primary meaning of the terms
   would scarcely have been called in question, but for a theory of false
   asceticism, and an undervaluing of the sanctity of the married estate.
   [1262] But, whatever the precise relationship between Jesus and these
   brothers and sisters,' it must, on any theory, have been of the
   closest, and exercised its influence upon Him. [1263]

   Passing over Joses or Joseph, of whose history we know next to nothing,
   we have sufficient materials to enable us to form some judgment of what
   must have been the tendencies and thoughts of two of His brothers James
   and Jude, before they were heart and soul followers of the Messiah, and
   of His cousin Simon. [1264] If we might venture on a general
   characterisation, we would infer from the Epistle of St. James, that
   his religious views had originally been cast in the mould of Shammai.
   Certainly, there is nothing of the Hillelite direction about it, but
   all to remind us of the earnestness, directness, vigour, and rigour of
   Shammai. Of Simon we know that he had belonged to the Nationalist
   party, since he is expressly so designated (Zelotes, [1265] Cananæan).
   [1266] Lastly, there are in the Epistle of St. Jude, one undoubted, and
   another probable reference to two of those (Pseudepigraphic)
   Apocalyptic books, which at that time marked one deeply interesting
   phase of the Messianic outlook of Israel. [1267] We have thus within
   the narrow circle of Christ's Family-Life - not to speak of any
   intercourse with the sons of Zebedee, who probably were also His
   cousins [1268] - the three most hopeful and pure Jewish tendencies,
   brought into constant contact with Jesus: in Pharisaism, the teaching
   of Shammai; then, the Nationalist ideal; and, finally, the hope of a
   glorious Messianic future. To these there should probably be added, at
   least knowledge of the lonely preparation of His kinsman John, who,
   though certainly not an Essene, had, from the necessity of his calling,
   much in his outward bearing that was akin to them.

   But we are anticipating. From what are, necessarily, only suggestions,
   we turn again to what is certain in connection with His Family-Life and
   its influences. From St. Mark vi. 3, we may infer with great
   probability, though not with absolute certainty, [1269] that He had
   adopted the trade of Joseph. Among the Jews the contempt for manual
   labour, which was one of the painful [1270] characteristics of
   heathenism, did not exist. On the contrary, it was deemed a religious
   duty, frequently and most earnestly insisted upon, to learn some trade,
   provided it did not minister to luxury, nor tend to lead away from
   personal observance of the Law. [1271] There was not such separation
   between rich and poor as with us, and while wealth might confer social
   distinction, the absence of it in no way implied social inferiority.
   Nor could it be otherwise where wants were so few, life was so simple,
   and its highest aim so ever present to the mind.

   We have already spoken of the religious influences in the family, so
   blessedly different from that neglect, exposure, and even murder of
   children among the heathen, or their education by slaves, who corrupted
   the mind from its earliest opening. [1272] The love of parents to
   children, appearing even in the curse which was felt to attach to
   childlessness; the reverence towards parents, as a duty higher than any
   of outward observance; and the love of brethren, which Jesus had
   learned in His home, form, so to speak, the natural basis of many of
   the teachings of Jesus. They give us also an insight into the
   family-life of Nazareth. And yet there is nothing sombre nor morose
   about it; and even the joyous games of children, as well as festive
   gatherings of families, find their record in the words and the life of
   Christ. This also is characteristic of His past. And so are His deep
   sympathy with all sorrow and suffering, and His love for the family
   circle, as evidenced in the home of Lazarus. That He spoke Hebrew, and
   used and quoted the Scriptures in the original, has already been shown,
   although, no doubt, He understood Greek, possibly also Latin.

   Secondly: Nature and Every-day Life. The most superficial perusal of
   the teaching of Christ must convince how deeply sympathetic He was with
   nature, and how keenly observant of man. Here there is no contrast
   between love of the country and the habits of city life; the two are
   found side by side. On His lonely walks He must have had an eye for the
   beauty of the lilies of the field, and thought of it, how the birds of
   the air received their food from an Unseen Hand, and with what maternal
   affection the hen gathered her chickens under her wing. He had watched
   the sower or the vinedresser as he went forth to his labour, and read
   the teaching of the tares which sprang up among the wheat. To Him the
   vocation of the shepherd must have been full of meaning, as he led, and
   fed, and watched his flock, spoke to his sheep with well-known voice,
   brought them to the fold, or followed, and tenderly carried back, those
   that had strayed, ever ready to defend them, even at the cost of his
   own life. Nay, He even seems to have watched the habits of the fox in
   its secret lair. But he also equally knew the joys, the sorrows, the
   wants and sufferings of the busy multitude. The play in the market, the
   marriage processions, the funeral rites, the wrongs of injustice and
   oppression, the urgent harshness of the creditor, the bonds and prison
   of the debtor, the palaces and luxury of princes and courtiers, the
   self-indulgence of the rich, the avarice of the covetous, the exactions
   of the tax-gatherer, and the oppression of the widow by unjust judges,
   had all made an indelible impression on His mind. And yet this evil
   world was not one which He hated, and from which He would withdraw
   Himself with His disciples, though ever and again He felt the need of
   periods of meditation and prayer. On the contrary, while He confronted
   all the evil in it, He would fain pervade the mass with the new leaven;
   not cast it away, but renew it. He recognised the good and the hopeful,
   even in those who seemed most lost. He quenched not the dimly burning
   flax, nor brake the bruised reed. It was not contempt of the world, but
   sadness over it; not condemnation of man, but drawing him to His
   Heavenly Father; not despising of the little and the poor, whether
   ontwardly or inwardly such, but encouragement and adoption of them,
   together with keen insight into the real under the mask of the
   apparent, and withering denunciation and unsparing exposure of all that
   was evil, mean, and unreal, wherever it might appear. Such were some of
   the results gathered from His past life, as presented in His teaching.

   Thirdly: Of the prevailing ideas around, with which He was brought in
   contact, some have already been mentioned. Surely, the earnestness of
   His Shammaite brother, if such we may venture to designate him; the
   idea of the Kingdom suggested by the Nationalists, only in its purest
   and most spiritual form, as not of this world, and as truly realising
   the sovereignty of God in the individual, whoever he might be; even the
   dreamy thoughts of the prophetic literature of those times, which
   sought to read the mysteries of the coming Kingdom; as well as the
   prophet-like asceticism of His forerunner and kinsman, formed at least
   so many points of contact for His teaching. Thus, Christ was in
   sympathy with all the highest tendencies of His people and time. Above
   all, there was His intimate converse with the Scriptures of the Old
   Testament. If, in the Synagogue, He saw much to show the hollowness,
   self-seeking, pride, and literalism which a mere external observance of
   the Law fostered, He would ever turn from what man or devils said to
   what He read, to what was written.' Not one dot or hook of it could
   fall to the ground - all must be established and fulfilled. The Law of
   Moses in all its bearings, the utterances of the prophets - Isaiah,
   Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, Hosea, Micah, Zechariah, Malachi - and the
   hopes and consolations of the Psalms, were all to Him literally true,
   and cast their light upon the building which Moses had reared. It was
   all one, a grand unity; not an aggregation of different parts, but the
   unfolding of a living organism. Chiefest of all, it was the thought of
   the Messianic bearing of all Scripture to its unity, the idea of the
   Kingdom of God and the King of Zion, which was the life and light of
   all. Beyond this, into the mystery of His inner converse with God, the
   unfolding of His spiritual receptiveness, and the increasing
   communication from above, we dare not enter. Even what His bodily
   appearance may have been, we scarcely venture to imagine. [1273] It
   could not but be that His outer man in some measure bodied forth His
   Inner Being.' Yet we dread gathering around our thoughts of Him the
   artificial flowers of legend. [1274] What His manner and mode of
   receiving and dealing with men were, we can portray to ourselves from
   His life. And so it is best to remain content with the simple account
   of the Evangelic narrative: Jesus increased in favour with God and
   Man.'
     __________________________________________________________________

   [1183] Ps. ixxxvii. 5-7.

   [1184] Ps. cxxii. 1-5.

   [1185] Ab. v. 21.

   [1186] Yoma 82 a.

   [1187] Comp. also Maimonides, Hilkh. Chag. ii. The common statement,
   that Jesus went to the Temple because He was a Son of the Commandment,'
   is obviously erroneous. All the more remarkable, on the other hand, is
   St. Luke's accurate knowledge of Jewish customs, and all the more
   antithetic to the mythical theory the circumstance, that he places this
   remarkable event in the twelfth year of Jesus' life, and not when He
   became a Son of the Law.'

   [1188] We take as the more correct reading that which puts the
   participle in the present tense (nabainnton), and not in the aorist.

   [1189] Jer Kidd. 61 c.

   [1190] From 4 b.c.to 6 a.d.

   [1191] The Romans were tolerant of the religion of all subject nations
   - excepting only Gaul and Carthage. This for reasons which cannot here
   be discussed. But what rendered Rome so obnoxious to Palestine was the
   cultus of the Emperor, as the symbol and impersonation of Imperial
   Rome. On this cultus Rome insisted in all countries, not perhaps so
   much on religious grounds as on political, as being the expression of
   loyalty to the empire. But in Judæa this cultus necessarily met
   resistance to the death. (Comp. Schneckenburger, Neutest. Zeitgesch.
   pp. 40-61.)

   [1192] 6-11 (?) a.d.

   [1193] Acts v. 37; Jos. Ant. xviii. 1. 1.

   [1194] This view, for which there is no historic foundation, is urged
   by those whose interest it is to deny the possibility of a census
   during the reign of Herod.

   [1195] That these were the sole grounds of resistance to the census,
   appears from Jos. Ant. xviii. 1. 1, 6.

   [1196] As unquestionably they did.

   [1197] Ant. xviii. 1. 6.

   [1198] Ant. xviii. 1. 6.

   [1199] u.s. and Jew. War vii. 10. 1.

   [1200] {hebrew}

   [1201] Ex. xv. 11

   [1202] Judg. xi. 3-6.

   [1203] The Talmud is never to be trusted as to historical details.
   Often it seems purposely to alter, when it intends the experienced
   student to read between the lines, while at other times it presents a
   story in what may be called an allegorical form.

   [1204] Ant. xiv. 9. 2-5.

   [1205] Sanh. 19 a.

   [1206] Yoma 39 b.

   [1207] The designation Lebanon' is often applied in Talmudic writings
   to the Temple.

   [1208] Midr. R. on Lament. i. 5; ed. Warsh. vol. iii.p. 60 a.

   [1209] Ab. de R. Nathan 4.

   [1210] Comp. Ab ii. 5.

   [1211] Shabb. 31 a.

   [1212] Ber. R. 70.

   [1213] This celebrated meeting, of which, however, but scant and
   incoherent notices are left us (Shabb. i. 7 and specially in the Jer.
   Talmud on the passage p. 3 c, d; and Shabb. 17 a; Tos. Shabb. i. 2),
   took place in the house of Chananyah, ben Chizqiyah, ben Garon, a noted
   Shammaite. On arriving, many of the Hillelites were killed in the lower
   room, and then a majority of Shammaites carried the so-called eighteen
   decrees. The first twelve forbade the purchase of the most necessary
   articles of diet from Gentiles; the next five forbade the learning of
   their language, declared their testimony invalid, and their offerings
   unlawful, and interdicted all intercourse with them; while the last
   referred to first fruits. It was on the ground of these decrees that
   the hitherto customary burnt-offering for the Emperor was intermitted,
   which was really a declaration of war against Rome. The date of these
   decrees was probably about four years before the destruction of the
   Temple (See Grätz, Gesch. d. Juden, vol. iii. pp. 494-502). These
   decrees were carried by the influence of R. Eleazar, son of Chananyah
   the High-Priest, a very wealthy man, whose father and brother belonged
   to the opposite or peace party. It was on the proposal of this strict
   Shammaite that the offering for the Emperor was intermitted (Jos. Jew.
   War ii. 17. 2, 3). Indeed, it is impossible to over-estimate the
   influence of these Shammaite decrees on the great war with Rome.
   Eleazar, though opposed to the extreme party, one of whose chiefs he
   took and killed, was one of the leaders of the national party in the
   war (War ii. 17. 9, 10). There is, however, some confusion about
   various persons who bore the same name. It is impossible in this place
   to mention the various Shammaites who took part in the last Jewish war.
   Suffice it to indicate the tendency of that School.

   [1214] Acts iv. 6.

   [1215] See the list of High-Priests in Appendix VI.

   [1216] The Boethusians furnished no fewer than four High-Priest during
   the period between the reign of Herod and that of Agrippa I. (41 a.d.).

   [1217] Ant. xviii. 1. 1.

   [1218] Ant. xviii. 2. 1.

   [1219] Ant. xviii. i. 1.

   [1220] Acts v. 37.

   [1221] Ant. xx. 5. 2.

   [1222] Jewish War ii. 17. 8 and 9.

   [1223] Jewish War, vii. 7-9.

   [1224] 9-12 a.d.

   [1225] 12-15 a.d.

   [1226] 15-26 a.d.

   [1227] Ps. xlii. Is. xxx. 29.

   [1228] A.V. Degrees;' Ps. cxx.-cxxxiv.

   [1229] It seems, however, that the Feast of Pentecost would see even
   more pilgrims - at least from a distance - in Jerusalem, than that of
   the Passover (comp. Acts ii. 9-11).

   [1230] St. Luke xix. 41.

   [1231] So according to the Rabbis; Josephus does not mention it. In
   general, the account here given is according to the Rabbis.

   [1232] These tunnels were divided by colonnades respectively into three
   and into two, the double colonnade being probably used by the priests,
   since its place of exit was close to the entrance into the Court of the
   Priests.

   [1233] Jos. War vi. 3. 2.

   [1234] Sanh. xi. 2.

   [1235] St. John ii. 14; St. Matt. xxi. 12; Jerus. Chag. p. 78 a; comp.
   Neh. xiii. 4 &c.

   [1236] The question what was sold in this market' and its relation to
   the bazaar' of the family of Annas (the Chanuyoth beney Chanan) will be
   discussed in a later part.

   [1237] The question as to their names and arrangement is not without
   difficulty. The subject is fully treated in The Temple and its
   Services.' Although I have followed in the text the arrangements of the
   Rabbis, I must express my grave doubts as to their historical
   trustworthiness. It seems to me that the Rabbis always give rather the
   ideal than the real - what, according to their theory, should have
   been, rather than what actually was.

   [1238] Acts iii. 2.

   [1239] For a full description, I must refer to The Temple, its Ministry
   and Services at the time of Jesus Christ.' Some repetition of what had
   been alluded to in previous chapters has been unavoidable in the
   present description of the Temple.

   [1240] Although comparatively few really great authorities in Jewish
   Canon Law lived at that time, more than a dozen names could be given of
   Rabbis celebrated in Jewish literature, who must have been His
   contemporaries at one or another period of His life.

   [1241] So according to the Rabbis generally. Comp. Hoffmann, Abh. ii.
   d. pent. Ges. pp. 65, 66.

   [1242] St. Luke ii. 43.

   [1243] In fact, an attentive consideration of what in the tractate Moed
   K. (comp. also Chag. 17 b), is declared to be lawful occupation during
   the half-holydays, leads us to infer that a very large proportion must
   have returned to their homes.

   [1244] For a full discussion of this important question, see Appendix
   X.: The Supposed Temple-Synagogue.'

   [1245] Sanh. 88 b.

   [1246] Comp. Jer. Ber. iv. p. 7 d, and other passages.

   [1247] The expression snesis means originally concursus, and (as
   Schleusner rightly puts it) intelligentia in the sense of perspicacia
   qua res probe cognitae subtiliter ac diligenter a se invicem
   discernuntur. The LXX. render by it no less than eight different Hebrew
   terms.

   [1248] The primary meaning of the verb, from which the word is derived,
   is secerno, discerno.

   [1249] Jer. Pes. vi. 1; Pes.66 a.

   [1250] St. Matt. xxii. 42-45.

   [1251] Jos. Ant. xv. 8. 5.

   [1252] According to Jer. Ab. Z. 44 d, the soil, the fountains, the
   houses, and the roads of Samaria were clean.'

   [1253] Maas. Sh. v. 2.

   [1254] This is implied in the use of the present participle.

   [1255] The first day would be that of missing Him, the second that of
   the return, and the third that of the search in Jerusalem.

   [1256] The expression n tos to patrs mou may be equally rendered, or
   rather supplemented, by in My Father's house,' and about My Father's
   business.' The former is adopted by most modern commentators. But (1)
   it does not accord with the word that must be supplemented in the two
   analogous passages in the LXX. Neither in Esth. vii. 9, nor in Ecclus.
   xlii. 10, is it strictly the house.' (2) It seems unaccountable how the
   word house' could have been left out in the Greek rendering of the
   Aramæan words of Christ - but quite natural, if the word to be
   supplemented was things' or business.' (3) A reference to the Temple as
   His Father's house could not have seemed so strange on the lips of
   Jesus - nor, indeed, of any Jewish child - as to fill Joseph and Mary
   with astonishment.

   [1257] The voluntariness of His submission is implied by the present
   part. mid. of the verb.

   [1258] The Authorised Version renders sayings.' But I think the
   expression is clearly equivalent to the Hebrew {hebrew} all these
   things. St. Luke uses the word {hebrew} in that sense in i. 65; ii. 15,
   19, 51; Acts v. 32; x.37; xiii. 42.

   [1259] St. Luke ii. 52.

   [1260] Comp. Philo in Flacc.ed. Fcf. p. 977 &c.

   [1261] For details as to dress, food, and manners in Palestine, I must
   refer to other parts of this book.

   [1262] Comp. St. Matt. i. 24; St. Luke ii. 7; St. Matt. xii. 46; xiii.
   55, 56; St. Mark iii. 31; vi. 3; Acts i. 14; 1 Cor. ix. 5; Gal. i. 19.

   [1263] The question of the real relationship of Christ to His brothers'
   has been so often discussed in the various Cyclopaedias that it seems
   unnecessary here to enter upon the matter in detail. See also Dr.
   Lightfoot's Dissertation in his Comment. on Galat. pp. 282-291.

   [1264] I regard this Simon (Zelotes) as the son of Clopas (brother of
   Joseph, the Virgin's husband) and of Mary. For the reasons of this
   view, see Book III. ch. xvii. and Book V. ch. xv.

   [1265] St. Luke vi. 15; Acts i.13.

   [1266] St. Mark iii. 18.

   [1267] St. Jude xv. 14, 15 to the book of Enoch, and v. 9 probably to
   the Assum. of Moses.

   [1268] On the maternal side. We read St. John xix. 25 as indicating
   four women - His Mother's sister being Salome, according to St. Mark
   xv. 40.

   [1269] Comp. St. Matt. xiii. 55; St. John vi. 42.

   [1270] See the chapter on Trades and Tradesmen,' in the Sketches of
   Jewish Social Life.'

   [1271] Comp. Ab. i. 10; Kidd. 29 b1.

   [1272] Comp. this subject in Döllinger, Heidenthum u. Judenthum,' in
   regard to the Greeks, p. 692; in regard to the Romans, pp. 716-722: in
   regard to education and its abominations, pp. 723-726. Nothing can cast
   a more lurid light on the need for Christianity, if the world was not
   to perish of utter rottenness, than a study of ancient Hellas and Rome,
   as presented by Döllinger in his admirable work.

   [1273] Even the poetic conception of the painter can only furnish his
   own ideal, and that of one special mood. Speaking as one who has no
   claim to knowledge of art, only one picture of Christ ever really
   impressed me. It was that of an Ecce Homo,' by Carlo Dolci, in the
   Pitti Gallery at Florence. For an account of the early pictorial
   representations, comp. Gieseler. Kirchengesch. i. pp. 85, 86.

   [1274] Of these there are, alas! only too many. The reader interested
   in the matter will find a good summary in Keim, i. 2, pp. 460-463. One
   of the few noteworthy remarks recorded is this description of Christ,
   in the spurious Epistle of Lentulus, Who was never seen to laugh, but
   often to weep.'
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XI.
IN THE FIFTEENTH YEAR OF TIBERIUS CÆSAR AND UNDER THE PONTIFICATE OF ANNAS AND
CAIAPHAS - A VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS

   (St. Matthew iii. 1-12; St. Mark i. 2-8; St. Luke iii. 1-18.)

   THERE is something grand, even awful, in the almost absolute silence
   which lies upon the thirty years between the Birth and the first
   Messianic Manifestation of Jesus. In a narrative like that of the
   Gospels, this must have been designed; and, if so, affords presumptive
   evidence of the authenticity of what follows, and is intended to teach,
   that what had preceded concerned only the inner History of Jesus, and
   the preparation of the Christ. At last that solemn silence was broken
   by an appearance, a proclamation, a rite, and a ministry as startling
   as that of Elijah had been. In many respects, indeed, the two
   messengers and their times bore singular likeness. It was to a society
   secure, prosperous, and luxurious, yet in imminent danger of perishing
   from hidden, festering disease; and to a religious community which
   presented the appearance of hopeless perversion, and yet contained the
   germs of a possible regeneration, that both Elijah and John the Baptist
   came. Both suddenly appeared to threaten terrible judgment, but also to
   open unthought-of possibilities of good. And, as if to deepen still
   more the impression of this contrast, both appeared in a manner
   unexpected, and even antithetic to the habits of their contemporaries.
   John came suddenly out of the wilderness of Judæa, as Elijah from the
   wilds of Gilead; John bore the same strange ascetic appearance as his
   predecessor; the message of John was the counterpart of that of Elijah;
   his baptism that of Elijah's novel rite on Mount Carmel. And, as if to
   make complete the parallelism, with all of memory and hope which it
   awakened, even the more minute details surrounding the life of Elijah
   found their counterpart in that of John. Yet history never repeats
   itself. It fulfils in its development that of which it gave indication
   at its commencement. Thus, the history of John the Baptist was the
   fulfilment of that of Elijah in the fulness of time.'

   For, alike in the Roman world and in Palestine, the time had fully
   come; not, indeed, in the sense of any special expectancy, but of
   absolute need. The reign of Augustus marked, not only the climax, but
   the crisis, of Roman history. Whatever of good or of evil the ancient
   world contained, had become fully ripe. As regarded politics,
   philosophy, religion, and society, the utmost limits had been reached.
   [1275] Beyond them lay, as only alternatives, ruin or regeneration. It
   was felt that the boundaries of the Empire could be no further
   extended, and that henceforth the highest aim must be to preserve what
   had been conquered. The destinies of Rome were in the hands of one man,
   who was at the same time general-in-chief of a standing army of about
   three hundred and forty thousand men, head of a Senate (now sunk into a
   mere court for registering the commands of Cæsar), and High-Priest of a
   religion, of which the highest expression was the apotheosis of the
   State in the person of the Emperor. Thus, all power within, without,
   and above lay in his hands. Within the city, which in one short reign
   was transformed from brick into marble, were, side by side, the most
   abject misery and almost boundless luxury. Of a population of about two
   millions, well-nigh one half were slaves; and, of the rest, the greater
   part either freedmen and their descendants, or foreigners. Each class
   contributed its share to the common decay. Slavery was not even what we
   know it, but a seething mass of cruelty and oppression on the one side,
   and of cunning and corruption on the other. More than any other cause,
   it contributed to the ruin of Roman society. The freedmen, who had very
   often acquired their liberty by the most disreputable courses, and had
   prospered in them, combined in shameless manner the vices of the free
   with the vileness of the slave. The foreigners - especially Greeks and
   Syrians - who crowded the city, poisoned the springs of its life by the
   corruption which they brought. The free citizens were idle, dissipated,
   sunken; their chief thoughts of the theatre and the arena; and they
   were mostly supported at the public cost. While, even in the time of
   Augustus, more than two hundred thousand persons were thus maintained
   by the State, what of the old Roman stock remained was rapidly
   decaying, partly from corruption, but chiefly from the increasing
   cessation of marriage, and the nameless abominations of what remained
   of family-life.

   The state of the provinces was in every respect more favourable. But it
   was the settled policy of the Empire, which only too surely succeeded,
   to destroy all separate nationalities, or rather to absorb and to
   Grecianise all. The only real resistance came from the Jews. Their
   tenacity was religious, and, even in its extreme of intolerant
   exclusiveness, served a most important Providential purpose. And so
   Rome became to all the centre of attraction, but also of fast-spreading
   destructive corruption. Yet this unity also, and the common bond of the
   Greek language, served another important Providential purpose. So did,
   in another direction, the conscious despair of any possible internal
   reformation. This, indeed, seemed the last word of all the institutions
   in the Roman world: It is not in me! Religion, philosophy, and society
   had passed through every stage, to that of despair. Without tracing the
   various phases of ancient thought, it may be generally said that, in
   Rome at least, the issue lay between Stoicism and Epicureanism. The one
   flattered its pride, the other gratified its sensuality; the one was in
   accordance with the original national character, the other with its
   later decay and corruption. Both ultimately led to atheism and despair
   - the one, by turning all higher aspirations self-ward, the other, by
   quenching them in the enjoyment of the moment; the one, by making the
   extinction of all feeling and self-deification, the other, the
   indulgence of every passion and the worship of matter, its ideal.

   That, under such conditions, all real belief in a personal continuance
   after death must have ceased among the educated classes, needs not
   demonstration. If the older Stoics held that, after death, the soul
   would continue for some time a separate existence - in the case of
   sages till the general destruction of the world by fire, it was the
   doctrine of most of their successors that, immediately after death, the
   soul returned into the world-soul' of which it was part. But even this
   hope was beset by so many doubts and misgivings, as to make it
   practically without influence or comfort. Cicero was the only one who,
   following Plato, defended the immortality of the soul, while the
   Peripatetics denied the existence of a soul, and leading Stoics at
   least its continuance after death. But even Cicero writes as one
   overwhelmed by doubts. With his contemporaries this doubt deepened into
   absolute despair, the only comfort lying in present indulgence of the
   passions. Even among the Greeks, who were most tenacious of belief in
   the non-extinction of the individual, the practical upshot was the
   same. The only healthier tendency, however mixed with error, came from
   the Neo-Platonic School, which accordingly offered a point of contact
   between ancient philosophy and the new faith.

   In such circumstances, anything like real religion was manifestly
   impossible. Rome tolerated, and, indeed, incorporated, all national
   rites. But among the populace religion had degenerated into abject
   superstition. In the East, much of it consisted of the vilest rites;
   while, among the philosophers, all religions were considered equally
   false or equally true - the outcome of ignorance, or else the
   unconscious modifications of some one fundamental thought. The only
   religion on which the State insisted was the deification and worship of
   the Emperor. [1276] These apotheoses attained almost incredible
   development. Soon not only the Emperors, but their wives, paramours,
   children, and the creatures of their vilest lusts, were deified; nay,
   any private person might attain that distinction, if the survivors
   possessed sufficient means. [1277] Mingled with all this was an
   increasing amount of superstition - by which term some understood the
   worship of foreign gods, the most part the existence of fear in
   religion. The ancient Roman religion had long given place to foreign
   rites, the more mysterious and unintelligible the more enticing. It was
   thus that Judaism made its converts in Rome; its chief recommendation
   with many being its contrast to the old, and the unknown possibilities
   which its seemingly incredible doctrines opened. Among the most
   repulsive symptoms of the general religious decay may be reckoned
   prayers for the death of a rich relative, or even for the satisfaction
   of unnatural lusts, along with horrible blasphemies when such prayers
   remained unanswered. We may here contrast the spirit of the Old and New
   Testaments with such sentiments as this, on the tomb of a child: To the
   unjust gods who robbed me of life;' or on that of a girl of twenty: I
   lift my hands against the god who took me away, innocent as I am.'

   It would be unsavoury to describe how far the worship of indecency was
   carried; how public morals were corrupted by the mimic representations
   of everything that was vile, and even by the pandering of a corrupt
   art. The personation of gods, oracles, divination, dreams, astrology,
   magic, necromancy, and theurgy, [1278] all contributed to the general
   decay. It has been rightly said, that the idea of conscience, as we
   understand it, was unknown to heathenism. Absolute right did not exist.
   Might was right. The social relations exhibited, if possible, even
   deeper corruption. The sanctity of marriage had ceased. Female
   dissipation and the general dissoluteness led at last to an almost
   entire cessation of marriage. Abortion, and the exposure and murder of
   newly-born children, were common and tolerated; unnatural vices, which
   even the greatest philosophers practised, if not advocated, attained
   proportions which defy description.

   But among these sad signs of the times three must be specially
   mentioned: the treatment of slaves; the bearing towards the poor; and
   public amusements. The slave was entirely unprotected; males and
   females were exposed to nameless cruelties, compared to which death by
   being thrown to the wild beasts, or fighting in the arena, might seem
   absolute relief. Sick or old slaves were cast out to perish from want.
   But what the influence of the slaves must have been on the free
   population, and especially upon the young - whose tutors they generally
   were - may readily be imagined. The heartlessness towards the poor who
   crowded the city is another well-known feature of ancient Roman
   society. Of course, there was neither hospitals, nor provision for the
   poor; charity and brotherly love in their every manifestation are
   purely Old and New Testament ideas. But even bestowal of the smallest
   alms on the needy was regarded as very questionable; best, not to
   afford them the means of protracting a useless existence. Lastly, the
   account which Seneca has to give of what occupied and amused the idle
   multitude - for all manual labour, except agriculture, was looked upon
   with utmost contempt - horrified even himself. And so the only escape
   which remained for the philosopher, the satiated, or the miserable,
   seemed the power of self-destruction! What is worse, the noblest
   spirits of the time of self-destruction! What is worse, the noblest
   spirits of the time felt, that the state of things was utterly
   hopeless. Society could not reform itself; philosophy and religion had
   nothing to offer: they had been tried and found wanting. Seneca longed
   for some hand from without to lift up from the mire of despair; Cicero
   pictured the enthusiasm which would greet the embodiment of true
   virtue, should it ever appear on earth; Tacitus declared human life one
   great farce, and expressed his conviction that the Roman world lay
   under some terrible curse. All around, despair, conscious need, and
   unconscious longing. Can greater contrast be imagined, than the
   proclamation of a coming Kingdom of God amid such a world; or clearer
   evidence be afforded of the reality of this Divine message, than that
   it came to seek and to save that which was thus lost? One synchronism,
   as remarkable as that of the Star in the East and the Birth of the
   Messiah, here claims the reverent attention of the student of history.
   On the 19th of December a.d. 69, the Roman Capitol, with its ancient
   sanctuaries, was set on fire. Eight months later, on the 9th of Ab a.d.
   70, the Temple of Jerusalem was given to the flames. It is not a
   coincidence but a conjunction, for upon the ruins of heathenism and of
   apostate Judaism was the Church of Christ to be reared.

   A silence, even more complete than that concerning the early life of
   Jesus, rests on the thirty years and more, which intervened between the
   birth and the open forthshowing [1279] of John in his character as
   Forerunner of the Messiah. Only his outward and inward development, and
   his being in the deserts,' [1280] are briefly indicated. [1281] The
   latter, assuredly, not in order to learn from the Essenes, [1282] but
   to attain really, in lonely fellowship with God, what they sought
   externally. It is characteristic that, while Jesus could go straight
   from the home and workshop of Nazareth to the Baptism of Jordan, His
   Forerunner required so long and peculiar preparation: characteristic of
   the difference of their Persons and Mission, characteristic also of the
   greatness of the work to be inaugurated. St. Luke furnishes precise
   notices of the time of the Baptist's public appearance - not merely to
   fix the exact chronology, which would not have required so many
   details, but for a higher purpose. For, they indicate, more clearly
   than the most elaborate discussion, the fitness of the moment for the
   Advent of the Kingdom of Heaven.' For the first time since the
   Babylonish Captivity, the foreigner, the Chief of the hated Roman
   Empire - according to the Rabbis, the fourth beast of Daniel's vision
   [1283] - was absolute and undisputed master of Judæa; and the chief
   religious office divided between two, equally unworthy of its
   functions. And it deserves, at least, notice, that of the Rulers
   mentioned by St. Luke, Pilate entered on his office [1284] only shortly
   before the public appearance of John, and that they all continued till
   after the Crucifixion of Christ. There was thus, so to speak, a
   continuity of these powers during the whole Messianic period.

   As regards Palestine, the ancient kingdom of Herod was now divided into
   four parts, Judæa being under the direct administration of Rome, two
   other tetrarchies under the rule of Herod's sons (Herod Antipas and
   Philip), while the small principality of Abilene was governed by
   Lysanias. [1285] Of the latter no details can be furnished, nor are
   they necessary in this history. It is otherwise as regards the sons of
   Herod, and especially the character of the Roman government at that
   time.

   Herod Antipas, whose rule extended over forty-three years, reigned over
   Galilee and Peræa - the districts which were respectively the principal
   sphere of the Ministry of Jesus and of John the Baptist. Like his
   brother Archelaus, Herod Antipas possessed in an even aggravated form
   most of the vices, without any of the greater qualities, of his father.
   Of deeper religious feelings or convictions he was entirely destitute,
   though his conscience occasionally misgrave, if it did not restrain,
   him. The inherent weakness of his character left him in the absolute
   control of his wife, to the final ruin of his fortunes.He was covetous,
   avaricious, luxurious, and utterly dissipated suspicious, and with a
   good deal of that fox-cunning which, especially in the East, often
   forms the sum total of state-craft. Like his father, he indulged a
   taste for building - always taking care to propitiate Rome by
   dedicating all to the Emperor. The most extensive of his undertakings
   was the building, in 22 a.d., of the city of Tiberias, at the upper end
   of the Lake of Galilee. The site was under the disadvantage of having
   formerly been a burying-place, which, as implying Levitical
   uncleanness, for some time deterred pious Jews from settling there.
   Nevertheless, it rose in great magnificence from among the reeds which
   had but lately covered the neighbourhood (the ensigns armorial of the
   city were reeds'). Herod Antipas made it his residence, and built there
   a strong castle and a palace of unrivalled splendour. The city, which
   was peopled chiefly by adventurers, was mainly Grecian, and adorned
   with an amphitheatre, of which the ruins can still be traced.

   A happier account can be given of Philip, the son of Herod the Great
   and Cleopatra of Jerusalem. He was undoubtedly the best of Herod's
   sons. He showed, indeed, the same abject submission as the rest of his
   family to the Roman Emperor, after whom he named the city of Cæsarea
   Philippi, which he built at the sources of the Jordan; just as he
   changed the name of Bethsaida, a village of which he made an opulent
   city, into Julias, after the daughter of Augustus. But he was a
   moderate and just ruler, and his reign of thirty-seven years contrasted
   favourably with that of his kinsmen. The land was quiet and prosperous,
   and the people contented and happy.

   As regards the Roman rule, matters had greatly changed for the worse
   since the mild sway of Augustus, under which, in the language of Philo,
   no one throughout the Empire dared to molest the Jews. [1286] The only
   innovations to which Israel had then to submit were, the daily
   sacrifices for the Emperor and the Roman people, offerings on festive
   days, prayers for them in the Synagogues, and such participation in
   national joy or sorrow as their religion allowed. [1287]

   It was far other when Tiberius succeeded to the Empire, and Judæa was a
   province. Merciless harshness characterised the administration of
   Palestine; while the Emperor himself was bitterly hostile to Judaism
   and the Jews, and that although, personally, openly careless of all
   religion. [1288] Under his reign the persecution of the Roman Jews
   occurred, and Palestine suffered almost to the verge of endurance. The
   first Procurator whom Tiberius appointed over Judæa, changed the
   occupancy of the High-Priesthood four times, till he found in Caiaphas
   a sufficiently submissive instrument of Roman tyranny. The exactions,
   and the reckless disregard of all Jewish feelings and interests, might
   have been characterised as reaching the extreme limit, if worse had not
   followed when Pontius Pilate succeeded to the procuratorship. Venality,
   violence, robbery, persecutions, wanton malicious insults, judicial
   murders without even the formality of a legal process - and cruelty,
   such are the charges brought against his administration. [1289] If
   former governors had, to some extent, respected the religious scruples
   of the Jews, Pilate set them purposely at defiance; and this not only
   once, but again and again, in Jerusalem, [1290] in Galilee, [1291] and
   even in Samaria, [1292] until the Emperor himself interposed. [1293]

   Such, then, was the political condition of the land, when John appeared
   to preach the near Advent of a Kingdom with which Israel associated all
   that was happy and glorious, even beyond the dreams of the religious
   enthusiast. And equally loud was the call for help in reference to
   those who held chief spiritual rule over the people. St. Luke
   significantly joins together, as the highest religious authority in the
   land, the names of Annas and Caiaphas. [1294] The former had been
   appointed by Quirinius. After holding the Pontificate for nine years,
   he was deposed, and succeeded by others, of whom the fourth was his
   son-in-law Caiaphas. The character of the High-Priests during the whole
   of that period is described in the Talmud [1295] in terrible language.
   And although there is no evidence that the house of Annas' [1296] was
   guilty of the same gross self-indulgence, violence, [1297] luxury, and
   even public indecency, [1298] as some of their successors, they are
   included in the woes pronounced on the corrupt leaders of the
   priesthood, whom the Santuary is represented as bidding depart from the
   sacred precincts, which their presence defiled. [1299] It deserves
   notice, that the special sin with which the house of Annas is charged
   is that of whispering' - or hissing like vipers - which seems to refer
   [1300] to private influence on the judges in their administration of
   justice, whereby morals were corrupted, judgment perverted and the
   Shekhinah withdrawn from Israel.' [1301] In illustration of this, we
   recall the terrorism which prevented Sanhedrists from taking the part
   of Jesus, [1302] and especially the violence which seems to have
   determined the final action of the Sanhedrin, [1303] against which not
   only such men as Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathea, but even a
   Gamaliel, would feel themselves powerless. But although the expression
   High-Priest' appears sometimes to have been used in a general sense, as
   designating the sons of the High-Priests, and even the principal
   members of their families, [1304] [1305] there could, of course, be
   only one actual High-Priest. The conjunction of the two names of Annas
   and Caiaphas [1306] probably indicates that, although Annas was
   deprived of the Pontificate, he still continued to preside over the
   Sanhedrin - a conclusion not only borne out by Acts iv. 6, where Annas
   appears as the actual President, and by the terms in which Caiaphas is
   spoken of, as merely one of them,' [1307] but by the part which Annas
   took in the final condemnation of Jesus. [1308]

   Such a combination of political and religious distress, surely,
   constituted the time of Israel's utmost need. As yet, no attempt had
   been made by the people to right themselves by armed force. In these
   circumstances, the cry that the Kingdom of Heaven was near at hand, and
   the call to preparation for it, must have awakened echoes throughout
   the land, and startled the most careless and unbelieving. It was,
   according to St. Luke's exact statement, in the fifteenth year of the
   reign of Tiberius Cæsar - reckoning, as provincials would do, [1309]
   from his co-regency with Augustus (which commenced two years before his
   sole reign), in the year 26 a.d. [1310] According to our former
   computation, Jesus would then be in His thirtieth year. [1311] The
   scene of John's first public appearance was in the wilderness of
   Judæa,' that is, the wild, desolate district around the mouth of the
   Jordan. We know not whether John baptized in this place, [1312] nor yet
   how long he continued there; but we are expressly told, that his stay
   was not confined to that locality. [1313] Soon afterwards we find him
   at Bethabara, [1314] which is farther up the stream. The outward
   appearance and the habits of the Messenger corresponded to the
   character and object of his Mission. Neither his dress nor his food was
   that of the Essenes; [1315] and the former, at least, like that of
   Elijah, [1316] [1317] whose mission he was now to fulfil.' This was
   evinced alike by what he preached, and by the new symbolic rite, from
   which he derived the name of Baptist.' The grand burden of his message
   was: the announcement of the approach of the Kingdom of Heaven,' and
   the needed preparation of his hearers for that Kingdom. The latter he
   sought, positively, by admonition, and negatively, by warnings, while
   he directed all to the Coming One, in Whom that Kingdom would become,
   so to speak, individualised. Thus, from the first, it was the good news
   of the Kingdom,' to which all else in John's preaching was but
   subsidiary.

   Concerning this Kingdom of Heaven,' which was the great message of
   John, and the great work of Christ Himself, [1318] we may here say,
   that it is the whole Old Testament sublimated, and the whole New
   Testament realised. The idea of it did not lie hidden in the Old, to be
   opened up in the New Testament - as did the mystery of its realisation.
   [1319] But this rule of heaven and Kingship of Jehovah was the very
   substance of the Old Testament; the object of the calling and mission
   of Israel; the meaning of all its ordinances, whether civil or
   religious; [1320] the underlying idea of all its institutions. [1321]
   It explained alike the history of the people, the dealings of God with
   them, and the prospects opened up by the prophets. Without it the Old
   Testament could not be understood; it gave perpetuity to its teaching,
   and dignity to its representations. This constituted alike the real
   contrast between Israel and the nations of antiquity, and Israel's real
   title to distinction. Thus the whole Old Testament was the preparatory
   presentation of the rule of heaven and of the Kingship of its Lord.

   But preparatory not only in the sense of typical, but also in that of
   inchoative. Even the twofold hindrance - internal and external - which
   the Kingdom' encountered, indicated this. The former arose from the
   resistance of Israel to their King; the latter from the opposition of
   the surrounding kingdoms of this world. All the more intense became the
   longing through thousands of years, that these hindrances might be
   swept away by the Advent of the promised Messiah, Who would permanently
   establish (by His spirit) the right relationship between the King and
   His Kingdom, by bringing in an everlasting righteousness, and also cast
   down existing barriers, by calling the kingdoms of this world to be the
   Kingdom of our God. This would, indeed, be the Advent of the Kingdom of
   God, such as had been the glowing hope held out by Zechariah, [1322]
   [1323] the glorious vision beheld by Daniel. [1324] [1325] Three ideas
   especially did this Kingdom of God imply: universality, heavenliness,
   and permanency. Wide as God's domain would be His Dominion; holy, as
   heaven in contrast to earth, and God to man, would be his character;
   and triumphantly lasting its continuance. Such was the teaching of the
   Old Testament, and the great hope of Israel. It scarcely needs mental
   compass, only moral and spiritual capacity, to see its matchless
   grandeur, in contrast with even the highest aspirations of heathenism,
   and the blanched ideas of modern culture.

   How imperfectly Israel understood this Kingdom, our previous
   investigations have shown. In truth, the men of that period possessed
   only the term - as it were, the form. What explained its meaning,
   filled, and fulfilled it, came once more from heaven. Rabbinism and
   Alexandrianism kept alive the thought of it; and in their own way
   filled the soul with its longing - just as the distress in church and
   State carried the need of it to every heart with the keenness of
   anguish. As throughout this history, the form was of that time; the
   substance and the spirit were of Him Whose coming was the Advent of
   that Kingdom. Perhaps the nearest approach to it lay in the higher
   aspirations of the Nationalist party, only that it sought their
   realisation, not spiritually, but outwardly. Taking the sword, it
   perished by the sword. It was probably to this that both Pilate and
   Jesus referred in that memorable question: Art Thou then a King?' to
   which our Lord, unfolding the deepest meaning of His mission, replied:
   My Kingdom is not of this world: if My Kingdom were of this world, then
   would My servants fight.' [1326]

   According to the Rabbinic views of the time, the terms Kingdom,'
   Kingdom of heaven,' [1327] and Kingdom of God' (in the Targum on Micah
   iv. 7 Kingdom of Jehovah'), were equivalent. In fact, the word heaven'
   was very often used instead of God,' so as to avoid unduly
   familiarising the ear with the Sacred Name. [1328] This, probably,
   accounts for the exclusive use of the expression Kingdom of Heaven' in
   the Gospel by St. Matthew. [1329] And the term did imply a contrast to
   earth, as the expression the Kingdom of God' did to this world. The
   consciousness of its contrast to earth or the world was distinctly
   expressed in Rabbinic writings. [1330]

   This Kingdom of Heaven,' or of God,' must, however, be distinguished
   from such terms as the Kingdom of the Messiah' (Malkhutha dimeshicha
   [1331] ), the future age (world) of the Messiah' (Alma deathey
   dimeshicha [1332] ), the days of the Messiah,' the age to come'
   (soeculum futurum, the Athid labho [1333] - both this and the previous
   expression [1334] ), the end of days,' [1335] and the end of the
   extremity of days' Soph Eqebh Yomaya [1336] ). This is the more
   important, since the Kingdom of Heaven' has so often been confounded
   with the period of its triumphant manifestation in the days,' or in the
   Kingdom, of the Messiah.' Between the Advent and the final
   manifestation of the Kingdom,' Jewish expectancy placed a temporary
   obscuration of the Messiah. [1337] Not His first appearance, but His
   triumphant manifestation, was to be preceded by the so-called sorrows
   of the Messiah' (the Chebhley shel Mashiach), the tribulations of the
   latter days.' [1338]

   A review of many passages on the subject shows that, in the Jewish mind
   the expression Kingdom of Heaven' referred, not so much to any
   particular period, as in general to the Rule of God - as acknowledged,
   manifested, and eventually perfected. Very often it is the equivalent
   for personal acknowledgment of God: the taking upon oneself of the
   yoke' of the Kingdom,' or of the commandments - the former preceding
   and conditioning the latter. [1339] Accordingly, the Mishnah [1340]
   gives this as the reason why, in the collection of Scripture passages
   which forms the prayer called Shema,' [1341] the confession, Deut. vi.
   4 &c., precedes the admonition, Deut. xi. 13 &c., because a man takes
   upon himself first the yoke of the Kingdom of Heaven, and afterwards
   that of the commandments. And in this sense, the repetition of this
   Shema, as the personal acknowledgment of the Rule of Jehovah, is itself
   often designated as taking upon oneself the Kingdom of Heaven.' [1342]
   Similarly, the putting on of phylacteries, and the washing of hands,
   are also described as taking upon oneself the yoke of the Kingdom of
   God. [1343] To give other instances: Israel is said to have taken up
   the yoke of the Kingdom of God at Mount Sinai; [1344] the children of
   Jacob at their last interview with their father; [1345] and Isaiah on
   his call to the prophetic office, [1346] where it is also noted that
   this must be done willingly and gladly. On the other hand, the sons of
   Eli and the sons of Ahab are said to have cast off the Kingdom of
   Heaven. [1347] While thus the acknowledgment of the Rule of God, both
   in profession and practice, was considered to constitute the Kingdom of
   God, its full manifestation was expected only in the time of the Advent
   of Messiah. Thus in the Targum on Isaiah xl. 9, the words Behold your
   God!' are paraphrased: The Kingdom of your God is revealed.' Similarly,
   [1348] we read: When the time approaches that the Kingdom of Heaven
   shall be manifested, then shall be fulfilled that "the Lord shall be
   King over all the earth."' [1349] [1350] On the other hand, the
   unbelief of Israel would appear in that they would reject these three
   things: the Kingdom of Heaven, the Kingdom of the House of David, and
   the building of the Temple, according to the prediction in Hos. iii. 5.
   [1351] It follows that, after the period of unbelief, the Messianic
   deliverances and blessings of the Athid Labho,' or future age, were
   expected. But the final completion of all still remained for the Olam
   Habba,' or world to come. And that there is a distinction between the
   time of the Messiah and this world to come' is frequently indicated in
   Rabbinic writings. [1352]

   As we pass from the Jewish ideas of the time to the teaching of the New
   Testament, we feel that while there is complete change of spirit, the
   form in which the idea of the Kingdom of Heaven is presented is
   substantially similar. Accordingly, we must dismiss the notion that the
   expression refers to the Church, whether visible (according to the
   Roman Catholic view) or invisible (according to certain Protestant
   writers). [1353] The Kingdom of God,' or Kingly Rule of God, is an
   objective fact. The visible Church can only be the subjective attempt
   at its outward realisation, of which the invisible Church is the true
   counterpart. When Christ says, [1354] that except a man be born from
   above, he cannot see the Kingdom of God,' He teaches, in opposition to
   the Rabbinic representation of how the Kingdom' was taken up, that a
   man cannot even comprehend that glorious idea of the Reign of God, and
   of becoming, by conscious self-surrender, one of His subjects, except
   he be first born from above. Similarly, the meaning of Christ's further
   teaching on this subject [1355] seems to be that, except a man be born
   of water (profession, with baptism [1356] as its symbol) and the
   Spirit, he cannot really enter into the fellowship of that Kingdom.

   In fact, an analysis of 119 passages in the New Testament where the
   expression Kingdom' occurs, shows that it means the rule of God; [1357]
   which was manifested in and through Christ; [1358] is apparent in the
   Church;' [1359] gradually develops amidst hindrances; [1360] is
   triumphant at the second coming of Christ [1361] (the end'); and,
   finally, perfected in the world to come. [1362] Thus viewed, the
   announcement of John of the near Advent of this Kingdom had deepest
   meaning, although, as so often in the case of prophetism, the stages
   intervening between the Advent of the Christ and the triumph of that
   Kingdom seem to have been hidden from the preacher. He came to call
   Israel to submit to the Reign of God, about to be manifested in Christ.
   Hence, on the one hand, he called them to repentance - a change of
   mind' - with all that this implied; and, on the other, pointed them to
   the Christ, in the exaltation of His Person and Office. Or rather, the
   two combined might be summed up in the call: Change your mind', repent,
   which implies, not only a turning from the past, but a turning to the
   Christ in newness of mind. [1363] And thus the symbolic action by which
   this preaching was accompanied might be designated the baptism of
   repentance.'

   The account given by St. Luke bears, on the face of it, that it was a
   summary, not only of the first, but of all John's preaching. [1364] The
   very presence of his hearers at this call to, and baptism of,
   repentance, gave point to his words. Did they who, notwithstanding
   their sins, [1365] lived in such security of carelessness and
   self-righteousness, really understand and fear the final consequences
   of resistance to the coming Kingdom'? If so, theirs must be a
   repentance not only in profession, but of heart and mind, such as would
   yield fruit, both good and visible. Or else did they imagine that,
   according to the common notion of the time, the vials of wrath were to
   be poured out only on the Gentiles, [1366] while they, as Abraham's
   children, were sure of escape - in the words of the Talmud, that the
   night' (Is. xxi. 12) was only to the nations of the world, but the
   morning to Israel?' [1367]

   For, no principle was more fully established in the popular conviction,
   than that all Israel had part in the world to come (Sanh. x. 1), and
   this, specifically, because of their connection with Abraham. This
   appears not only from the New Testament, [1368] from Philo, and
   Josephus, but from many Rabbinic passages. The merits of the Fathers,'
   is one of the commonest phrases in the mouth of the Rabbis. [1369]
   Abraham was represented as sitting at the gate of Gehenna, to deliver
   any Israelite [1370] who otherwise might have been consigned to its
   terrors. [1371] In fact, by their descent from Abraham, all the
   children of Israel were nobles, [1372] infinitely higher than any
   proselytes. What,' exclaims the Talmud, shall the born Israelite stand
   upon the earth, and the proselyte be in heaven?' [1373] In fact, the
   ships on the sea were preserved through the merit of Abraham; the rain
   descended on account of it. [1374] For his sake alone had Moses been
   allowed to ascend into heaven, and to receive the Law; for his sake the
   sin of the golden calf had been forgiven; [1375] his righteousness had
   on many occasions been the support of Israel's cause; [1376] Daniel had
   been heard for the sake of Abraham; [1377] nay, his merit availed even
   for the wicked. [1378] [1379] In its extravagance the Midrash thus
   apostrophises Abraham: If thy children were even (morally) dead bodies,
   without blood vessels or bones, thy merit would avail for them!' [1380]

   But if such had been the inner thoughts of his bearers, John warned
   them, that God was able of those stones that strewed the river-bank to
   raise up children unto Abraham; [1381] [1382] or, reverting to his
   former illustration of fruits meet for repentance,' that the
   proclamation of the Kingdom was, at the same time, the laying of the
   axe to the root of every tree that bore not fruit. Then making
   application of it, in answer to the specific inquiry of various
   classes, the preacher gave them such practical advice as applied to the
   well-known sins of their past; [1383] yet in this also not going beyond
   the merely negative, or preparatory element of repentance.' The
   positive, and all-important aspect of it, was to be presented by the
   Christ. It was only natural that the hearers wondered whether John
   himself was the Christ, since he thus urged repentance. For this was so
   closely connected in their thoughts with the Advent of the Messiah,
   that it was said, If Israel repented but one day, the Son of David
   would immediately come.' [1384] But here John pointed them to the
   difference between himself and his work, and the Person and Mission of
   the Christ. In deepest reverence he declared himself not worthy to do
   Him the service of a slave or of a disciple. [1385] His Baptism would
   not be of preparatory repentance and with water, but the Divine Baptism
   in [1386] the Holy Spirit and fire [1387] - in the Spirit Who
   sanctified, and the Divine Light which purified, [1388] and so
   effectively qualified for the Kingdom.' And there was still another
   contrast. John's was but preparing work, the Christ's that of final
   decision; after it came the harvest. His was the harvest, and His the
   garner; His also the fan, with which He would sift the wheat from the
   straw and chaff - the one to be garnered, the other burned with fire
   unextinguished and inextinguishable. [1389] Thus early in the history
   of the Kingdom of God was it indicated, that alike that which would
   prove useless straw and the good corn were inseparably connected in
   God's harvest-field till the reaping time; that both belonged to Him;
   and that the final separation would only come at the last, and by His
   own Hand.


   What John preached, that he also symbolised by a rite which, though not
   in itself, yet in its application, was wholly new. Hitherto the Law had
   it, that those who had contracted Levitical defilement were to immerse
   before offering sacrifice. Again, it was prescribed that such Gentiles
   as became proselytes of righteousness,' or proselytes of the Covenant'
   (Gerey hatstsedeq or Gerey habberith), were to be admitted to full
   participation in the privileges of Israel by the threefold rites of
   circumcision, baptism, [1390] and sacrifice - the immersion being, as
   it were, the acknowledgment and symbolic removal of moral defilement,
   corresponding to that of Levitical uncleanness. But never before had it
   been proposed that Israel should undergo a baptism of repentance,'
   although there are indications of a deeper insight into the meaning of
   Levitical baptisms. [1391] Was it intended, that the hearers of John
   should give this as evidence of their repentance, that, like persons
   defiled, they sought purification, and, like strangers, they sought
   admission among the people who took on themselves the Rule of God?
   These two ideas would, indeed, have made it truly a baptism of
   repentance.' But it seems difficult to suppose, that the people would
   have been prepared for such admissions; or, at least, that there should
   have been no record of the mode in which a change so deeply spiritual
   was brought about. May it not rather have been that as, when the first
   Covenant was made, Moses was directed to prepare Israel by symbolic
   baptism of their persons [1392] and their garments, [1393] so the
   initiation of the new Covenant, by which the people were to enter into
   the Kingdom of God, was preceded by another general symbolic baptism of
   those who would be the true Israel, and receive, or take on themselves,
   the Law from God? [1394] In that case the rite would have acquired not
   only a new significance, but be deeply and truly the answer to John's
   call. In such case also, no special explanation would have been needed
   on the part of the Baptist, nor yet such spiritual insight on that of
   the people as we can scarcely suppose them to have possessed at that
   stage. Lastly, in that case nothing could have been more suitable, nor
   more solemn, than Israel in waiting for the Messiah and the Rule of
   God, preparing as their fathers had done at the foot of Mount Sinai.
   [1395]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [1275] Instead of detailed quotations I would here generally refer to
   works on Roman history, especially to Friedländer's Sittengeschichte
   Roms, and to Döllinger's exhaustive work, Heidenthum and Judenthum.

   [1276] The only thorough resistance to this worship came from hated
   Judæa, and, we may add, from Britain (Döllinger, p. 611).

   [1277] From the time of Cæsar to that of Diocletian, fifty-three such
   apotheoses took place, including those of fifteen women belonging to
   the Imperial families.

   [1278] One of the most painful, and to the Christian almost incredible,
   manifestations of religious decay was the unblushing manner in which
   the priests practised imposture upon the people. Numerous and terrible
   instances of this could be given. The evidence of this is not only
   derived from the Fathers, but a work has been preserved in which formal
   instructions are given, how temples and altars are to be constructed in
   order to produce false miracles, and by what means impostures of this
   kind may be successfully practised. (Comp. The Pneumatics of Hero,'
   translated by B. Woodcroft.)  The worst was, that this kind of
   imposture on the ignorant populace was openly approved by the educated.
   (Döllinger, p. 647.)

   [1279] This seems the full meaning of the word, St. Luke i. 80. Comp.
   Acts i. 24 (in the A. V. shew').

   [1280] The plural indicates that St. John was not always in the same
   wilderness.' The plural form in regard to the wilderness which are in
   the land of Israel,' is common in Rabbinic writings (comp. Baba K. vii.
   7 and the Gemaras on the passage). On the fulfilment by the Baptist of
   Is. xl. 3, see the discussion of that passage in Appendix XI.

   [1281] St. Luke i. 80.

   [1282] Godet has, in a few forcible sentences, traced what may be
   called not merely the difference, but the contrast between the teaching
   and aims of the Essenes and those of John.

   [1283] Ab.Zar.2 b.

   [1284] Probably about Easter, 26 a.d.

   [1285] Till quite lately, those who impugn the veracity of the Gospels
   - Strauss, and even Keim - have pointed to this notice of Lysanias as
   an instance of the unhistorical character of St. Luke's Gospel. But it
   is now admitted on all hands that the notice of St. Luke is strictly
   correct; and that, besides the other Lysanias, one of the same name had
   reigned over Abilene at the time of Christ. Comp. Wieseler, Beitr. pp.
   196-204, and Schürer in Riehm's Handwörterb, p. 931.

   [1286] Philo, ed. Frcf., Leg. 1015.

   [1287] u. s. 1031, 1041.

   [1288] Suet. Tiber. 69.

   [1289] Philo, u.s. 1034.

   [1290] Jos. Ant. xviii. 3. 1, 2.

   [1291] St. Luke xiii. 1.

   [1292] Ant. xviii. 4. 1, 2.

   [1293] Philo, Leg. 1033.

   [1294] The Procurators were Imperial financial officers, with absolute
   power of government in smaller territories. The office was generally in
   the hands of the Roman knights, which chiefly consisted of financial
   men, bankers, chief publicans, &c. The order of knighthood had sunk to
   a low state, and the exactions of such a rule, especially in Judea, can
   better be imagined than described. Comp. on the whole subject,
   Friedländer, Sittengesch. Rom, vol. i. p. 268 &c.

   [1295] Pes. 57 a.

   [1296] Annas, either Chanan ({hebrew}), or else Chana or Channa, a
   common name. Professor Delitzsch has rightly shown that the Hebrew
   equivalent for Caiaphas is not Keypha ({hebrew}) = Peter, but Kayapha
   ({hebrew}), or perhaps rather - according to the reading Kaphas -
   {hebrew}, Kaipha, , or Kaiphah. The name occurs in the Mishnah as
   Kayaph [so, and not Kuph, correctly] (Parah iii. 5). Professor
   Delitzsch does not venture to explain its meaning. Would it be too bold
   to suggest a derivation from {hebrew}, and the meaning to be: He who is
   at the top?'

   [1297] Jos. Ant. xx. 8. 8.

   [1298] Yoma 35 b.

   [1299] Pes. u.s.

   [1300] If we may take a statement in the Talmud, where the same word
   occurs, as a commentary.

   [1301] Tos. Set. xiv.

   [1302] St. John vii. 50-52.

   [1303] St. John xi. 47-50.

   [1304] Jos. Jewish War vi. 2. 2.

   [1305] I do not, however, feel sure that the word high-priests' in this
   passage should be closely pressed. It is just one of those instances in
   which it would suit Josephus to give such a grandiose title to those
   who joined the Romans.

   [1306] This only in St. Luke.

   [1307] St. John xi. 49.

   [1308] St. John xviii. 13.

   [1309] Wieseler has, I think, satisfactorily established this. Comp.
   Beitr. pp. 191-194.

   [1310] 779 a.u.c.

   [1311] St. Luke speaks of Christ being about thirty years old' at the
   time of His baptism. If John began His public ministry in the autumn,
   and some months elapsed before Jesus was baptized, our Lord would have
   just passed His thirtieth year when He appeared at Bethabara. We have
   positive evidence that the expression about' before a numeral meant
   either a little more or a little less than that exact number. See Midr.
   on Ruth i. 4 ed. Warsh. p. 39 b.

   [1312] Here tradition, though evidently falsely, locates the Baptism of
   Jesus.

   [1313] St. Luke iii. 3.

   [1314] St. John i. 28.

   [1315] In reference not only to this point, but in general, I would
   refer to Bishop Lightfoot's masterly essay on the Essenes in his
   Appendix to his Commentary on Colossians (especially here, pp. 388,
   400). It is a remarkable confirmation of the fact that, if John had
   been an Essene, his food could not have been locusts' that the Gospel
   of the Ebionites, who, like the Essenes, abstained from animal food,
   omits the mention of the locusts,' of St. Matt. iii. 4. (see Mr.
   Nicholson's The Gospel of the Hebrews,' pp. 34, 35). But proof positive
   is derived from Jer. Nedar. 40 b, where, in case of a vow of abstinence
   from flesh, fish and locusts are interdicted.

   [1316] 2 Kings i. 3.

   [1317] Our A.V. wrongly translates a hairy man,' instead of a man with
   a hairy (camel's hair) raiment.' This seems afterwards to have become
   the distinctive dress of the prophets (comp. Zech. xiii. 4).

   [1318] Keim beautifully designates it: Das Lieblingswort Jesu.

   [1319] Rom. xvi. 25, 26; Eph. i. 9; Col. i. 26, 27.

   [1320] If, indeed, in the preliminary dispensation these two can be
   well separated.

   [1321] I confess myself utterly unable to understand, how anyone
   writing a History of the Jewish Church can apparently eliminate from it
   what even Keim designates as the treibenden Gedanken des Alten
   Testaments' - those of the Kingdom and the King. A Kingdom of God
   without a King; a Theocracy without the rule of God; a perpetual
   Davidic Kingdom without a Son of David' - these are antinomies (to
   borrow the term of Kant) of which neither the Old Testament, the
   Apocrypha, the Pseudepigraphic writings, nor Rabbinism were guilty.

   [1322] xiv. 9.

   [1323] And the Lord shall be King over all the earth: in that day shall
   there be one Lord, and His Name one.'

   [1324] vii. 13, 14.

   [1325] I saw in the night visions, and, behold, One like the Son of Man
   came with the clouds of heaven, and came to the Ancient of Days, and
   they brought Him near before Him. And there was given Him dominion, and
   glory, and a kingdom, that all people, nations, and languages, should
   serve Him: His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not
   pass away, and His kingdom that which shall not be destroyed.'

   [1326] St. John xvii. 33-37.

   [1327] Occasionally we find, instead of Malkhuth Shamayim (Kingdom of
   Heaven'), Malkhutha direqiya (Kingdom of the firmament'), as in Ber. 58
   a, Shebhu. 35 b. But in the former passage, at least, it seems to apply
   rather to God's Providential government than to His moral reign.

   [1328] The Talmud (Shebhu. 35 b) analyses the various passages of
   Scripture in which it is used in a sacred and in the common sense.

   [1329] In St. Matthew the expression occurs thirty-two times; six times
   that of the Kingdom;' five times that of Kingdom of God.'

   [1330] As in Shebhu 35 b; Ber. R. 9, ed Warsh, pp. 19 b, 20 a.

   [1331] As in the Targum on Ps. xiv. 7, and on Is. liii. 10.

   [1332] As in Targum on 1 Kings iv. 33 (v. 13).

   [1333] The distinction between the Olam habba (the world to come), and
   the Athid labho (the age to come), is important. It will be more fully
   referred to by-and-by. In the meantime, suffice it, that the Athid
   labho is the more specific designation of Messianic times. The two
   terms are expressly distinguished, for example, in Mechilta (ed.
   Weiss), p. 74 a, lines 2, 3.

   [1334] For example, in Ber. R. 88, ed. Warsh. p. 157 a.

   [1335] Targ. PseudoJon. on Ex. xl. 9, 11.

   [1336] Jer. Targ. on Gen. iii. 15; Jer. and PseudoJon. Targ on Numb.
   xxiv. 14.

   [1337] This will be more fully explained and shown in the sequel. For
   the present we refer only to Yalkut, vol. ii. p. 75 d, and the Midr. on
   Ruth ii. 14.

   [1338] The whole subject is fully treated in Book V. ch. vi.

   [1339] So expressly in Mechilta, p. 75 a; Yalkut, vol. ii. p. 14 a,
   last line.

   [1340] Ber. ii. 2.

   [1341] The Shema, which was repeated twice every day, was regarded as
   distinctive of Jewish profession (Ber. iii. 3).

   [1342] For example, Ber. 13 b, 14 b; Ber. ii. 5; and the touching story
   of Rabbi Akiba thus taking upon himself the yoke of the Law in the hour
   of his martyrdom, Ber. 61 b.

   [1343] In Ber. 14 b, last line, and 15 a, first line, there is a
   shocking definition of what constitutes the Kingdom of Heaven in its
   completeness. For the sake of those who would derive Christianity from
   Rabbinism. I would have quoted it, but am restrained by its profanity.

   [1344] So often Comp. Siphré p. 142 b, 143 b.

   [1345] Ber. R. 98.

   [1346] Yalkut, vol. ii. p. 43 a.

   [1347] Midr. on 1 Sam. viii 12; Midr. on Eccl. i. 18.

   [1348] In Yalkut ii. p. 178 a.

   [1349] Zech. xiv. 9.

   [1350] The same passage is similarly referred to in the Midr. on Song.
   ii. 12, where the words the time of the singing has come,' are
   paraphrased; the time of the Kingdom of Heaven that it shall be
   manifested, hath come' (in R. Martini Pugio Fidei, p. 782).

   [1351] Midr. on 1 Sam. viii. 7. Comp. also generally Midr. on Ps.
   cxlvii. 1.

   [1352] As in Shabb. 63 a, where at least three differences between them
   are mentioned. For, while all prophecy pointed to the days of the
   Messiah, concerning the world to come we are told (Is. lxiv. 4) that
   eye hath not seen, &c.'; in the days of the Messiah weapons would be
   borne, but not in the world to come; and while Is. xxiv. 21 applied to
   the days f the Messiah, the seemingly contradictory passage, Is. xxx.
   26, referred to the world to come. In Targum Pseudo-Jonathan on Exod.
   xvii. 16, we read of three generations: that of this world, that of the
   Messiah, and that of the world to come (Aram: Alma deathey=olam habba).
   Comp. Ar. 13 b, and Midr. on Ps. lxxxi. 2 (3 in A.V.), ed. Warsh. p. 63
   a, where the harp of the Sanctuary is described as of seven strings
   (according to Ps. cxix. 164); in the days of the Messiah as of eight
   strings (according to the inscription of ps. xii.); and in the world to
   come (here Athid labho) as of ten strings (according to Ps. xcii. 3).
   The references of Gfrörer (Jahrh. d. Heils, vol. ii. p. 213) contain,
   as not unfrequently, mistakes. I may here say that Rhenferdius carries
   the argument about the Olam habba, as distinguished from the days of
   the Messiah, beyond what I believe to be established. See his
   Dissertation in Meuschen, Nov. Test. pp. 1116 &c.

   [1353] It is difficult to conceive, how the idea of the identity of the
   Kingdom of God with the Church could have originated. Such parables as
   those about the Sower, and about the Net (St. Matt. xiii. 3-9; 47, 48),
   and such admonitions as those of Christ to His disciples in St. Matt.
   xix. 12; vi. 33; and vi. 10, are utterly inconsistent with it.

   [1354] St. John iii. 3.

   [1355] in ver. 5.

   [1356] The passage which seems to me most fully to explain the import
   of baptism, in its subjective bearing, is 1 Peter, iii. 21, which I
   would thus render: which (water) also, as the antitype, now saves you,
   even baptism; not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the
   inquiry (the searching, perhaps the entreaty), for a good conscience
   towards God, through the resurrection of Christ.' It is in this sense
   that baptism is designated in Tit. iii. 5, as the washing,' or bath of
   regeneration,' the baptized person stepping out o the waters of baptism
   with this openly spoken new search after a good conscience towards God;
   and in this sense also that baptism - not the act of baptizing, nor yet
   that of being baptized - saves us, but this through the Resurrection of
   Christ. And this leads us up to the objective aspect of baptism. This
   consists in the promise and the gift on the part of the Risen Saviour,
   Who, by and with His Holy Spirit, is ever present with his Church.
   These remarks leave, of course, aside the question of Infant-Baptism,
   which rests on another and, in my view most solid basis.

   [1357] In this view the expression occurs thirty-four times, viz: St.
   Matt. vi. 33; xii. 28; xiii. 38; xix. 24; xxi. 31; St. Mark i. 14; x.
   15, 23, 24, 25; xii. 34; St. Luke i. 33; iv. 43; ix. 11; x. 9, 11; xi.
   20; xii. 31; xvii. 20, 21; xviii. 17, 24, 25, 29; St. John iii. 3; Acts
   i. 3; viii. 12; xx. 25; xxviii. 31; Rom. xiv. 17; 1 Cor. iv. 20; Col.
   iv. 11; 1 Thess. ii. 12; Rev. i. 9.

   [1358] As in the following seventeen passages, viz.: St. Matt. iii. 2;
   iv. 17, 23; v. 3, 10; ix. 35; x. 7; St. Mark i. 15; xi. 10; St. Luke
   viii. 1; ix. 2; xvi. 16; xix. 12, 15; Acts i. 3; xxviii. 23; Rev. i. 9.

   [1359] As in the following eleven passages: St. Matt. xi. 11; xiii. 41;
   xvi. 19; xviii. 1; xxi. 43; xxiii. 13; St. Luke vii. 28; St. John iii.
   5; Acts i. 3; Col. i. 13; Rev. i. 9.

   [1360] As in the following twenty-four passages: St. Matt. xi. 12;
   xiii. 11, 19, 24, 31, 33, 44, 45, 47, 52; xviii. 23; xx. 1; xxii. 2;
   xxv. 1, 14; St. Mark iv. 11, 26, 30; St. Luke viii. 10; ix. 62; xiii.
   18, 20; Acts i. 3; Rev. i. 9.

   [1361] As in the following twelve passages: St. Mark xvi. 28; St. Mark
   ix. 1; xv. 43; St. Luke ix. 27; xix. 11; xxi. 31; xxii. 16, 18; Acts i.
   3; 2 Tim. iv. 1; Heb. xii. 28; Rev. i. 9.

   [1362] As in the following thirty-one passages: St. Matt. v. 19, 20;
   vii. 21; viii. 11; xiii. 43; xviii. 3; xxv. 34; xxvi. 29; St. Mark ix.
   47; x. 14; xiv. 25; St. Luke vi. 20; xii. 32; xiii. 28, 29; xiv. 15;
   xviii. 16; xxii. 29; Acts i. 3; xiv. 22; 1 Cor. vi. 9, 10; xv. 24, 50;
   Gal. v. 21; Eph. v. 5; 2 Thess. i. 5; St. James ii. 5; 2 Peter i. 11;
   Rev. i. 9; xii. 10.

   [1363] The term repentance' includes faith in Christ, as in St. Luke
   xxiv. 47; Acts v. 31.

   [1364] iii. 18.

   [1365] I cannot, with Schöttgen and others, regard the expression
   generation of vipers' as an allusion to the filthy legend about the
   children of Eve and the serpent, but believe that it refers to such
   passages as Ps. lviii. 4.

   [1366] In proof that such was the common view, I shall here refer to
   only a few passages, and these exclusively from the Targumum: Jer.
   Targ. on Gen. xlix. 11; Targ. on Is. xi. 4; Targ. on Amos ix. 11; Targ.
   on Nah. i. 6; on Zech. x. 3, 4. See also Ab. Z. 2 b, Yalkut i. p. 64 a;
   also 56 b (where it is shown how plagues exactly corresponding to those
   of Egypt were to come upon Rome).

   [1367] Jer. Taan. 64 a.

   [1368] St. John viii. 33, 39, 53.

   [1369] Everything comes to Israel on account of the merits of the
   fathers' (Siphré on Deut. p. 108 b). In the same category we place the
   extraordinary attempts to show that the sins of Biblical personages
   were not sins at all, as in Shabb. 55 b, and the idea of Israel's
   merits as works of supererogation (as in Baba B. 10 a).

   [1370] I will not mention the profane device by which apostate and
   wicked Jews are at that time to be converted into non-Jews.

   [1371] Ber. R. 48; comp. Midr. on Ps. vi. 1; Pirké d. R. Elies. c. 29;
   Shem. R. 19 Yalkut i. p. 23 b.

   [1372] Baba Mez. vii. 1; Baba K. 91 a.

   [1373] Jer. Chag. 76 a.

   [1374] Ber. R. 39.

   [1375] Shem R. 44.

   [1376] Vayyikra R. 36.

   [1377] Ber. 7 b.

   [1378] Shabb. 55 a; comp Beer, Leben Abr. p. 88.

   [1379] Professor Wünsche quotes an inapt passage from Shabb. 89 b, but
   ignores, or is ignorant of the evidence above given.

   [1380] Ber. R. ed. Warsh. p. 80 b, par. 44.

   [1381] Perhaps with reference to Is. ii. 1, 2.

   [1382] Lightfoot aptly points out a play on the words children' - banim
   - and stones' - abhanim. Both words are derived from bana, to build,
   which is also used by the Rabbis in a moral sense like our own
   upbuilding,' and in that of the gift of adoption of children. It is not
   necessary, indeed almost detracts from the general impression, to see
   in the stones an allusion to the Gentiles.

   [1383] Thus the view that charity delivered from Gehenna was very
   commonly entertained (see, for example, Baba B. 10 a). Similarly, it
   was the main charge against the publicans that they exacted more than
   their due (see, for example, Baba K. 113 a). The Greek psnion, or wage
   of the soldiers, has its Rabbinic equivalent of Afsanya (a similar word
   also in the Syriac).

   [1384] For ex. Jer. Taan. 64 a.

   [1385] Volkmar is mistaken in regarding this as the duty of the
   house-porter towards arriving guests. It is expressly mentioned as one
   of the characteristic duties of slaves in Pes. 4 a; Jer Kidd. i. 3;
   Kidd. 22 b. In Kethub. 96 a it is described as also the duty of a
   disciple towards his teacher. In Mechilta on Ex. xxi. 2 (ed. Weiss, p.
   82 a) it is qualified as only lawful for a teacher so to employ his
   disciple, while, lastly, in Pesiqta x. it is described as the common
   practice.

   [1386] Godet aptly calls attention to the use of the preposition in
   here, while as regards the baptism of water no preposition is used, as
   denoting merely an instrumentality.

   [1387] The same writer points out that the want of the preposition
   before fire' shows that it cannot refer to the fire of judgment, but
   must be a further enlargement of the word Spirit.' Probably it denotes
   the negative or purgative effect of this baptism, as the word holy'
   indicates its positive and sanctifying effect.

   [1388] The expression baptism of fire' was certainly not unknown to the
   Jews. In Sanh. 39 a (last lines) we read of an immersion of God in
   fire, based on Is. lxvi. 15. An immersion or baptism of fire is proved
   from Numb. xxxi. 23. More apt, perhaps, as illustration is the
   statement, Jer. Sot. 22 d, that the Torah (the Law) its parchment was
   white fire, the writing black fire, itself fire mixed with fire, hewn
   out of fire, and given by fire, according to Deut. xxxiii. 2.

   [1389] This is the meaning of sbestos. The word occurs only in St.
   Matt. iii. 12; St. Luke iii. 17; St. Mark ix. 43, 45 (?), but
   frequently in the classics. The question of eternal punishment' will be
   discussed in another place. The simile of the fan and the garner is
   derived from the Eastern practice of threshing out the corn in the open
   by means of oxen, after which, what of the straw had been trampled
   under foot (not merely the chaff, as in the A.V.) was burned. This use
   of the straw for fire is referred to in the Mishnah, as in Shabb. iii.
   1; Par. iv. 3. But in that case the Hebrew equivalent for it is
   {hebrew} (Qash) - as in the above passages, and not Tebhen (Meyer), nor
   even as Professor Delitzsch renders it in his Hebrew N.T.: Mots. The
   three terms are, however, combined in a curiously illustrative parable
   (Ber. R. 83), referring to the destruction of Rome and the preservation
   of Israel, when the grain refers the straw, stubble, and chaff, in
   their dispute for whose sake the field existed, to the time when the
   owner would gather the corn into his barn, but burn the straw, stubble,
   and chaff.

   [1390] For a full discussion of the question of the baptism of
   proselytes, see Appendix XII.

   [1391] The following very significant passage may here be quoted: A man
   who is guilty of sin, and makes confession, and does not turn from it,
   to whom is he like? To a man who has in his hand a defiling reptile,
   who, even if he immerses in all the waters of the world, his baptism
   avails him nothing; but let him cast it from his hand, and if he
   immerses in only forty seah of water, immediately his baptism avails
   him.' On the same page of the Talmud there are some very apt and
   beautiful remarks on the subject of repentance (Taan. 16 a, towards the
   end).

   [1392] Comp. Gen. xxxv. 2

   [1393] Ex. xix. 10, 14.

   [1394] It is remarkable, that Maimonides traces even the practice of
   baptizing proselytes to Ex. xix. 10, 14 (Hilc Issurey Biah xiii. 3; Yad
   haCh. vol. ii. p. 142 b). He also gives reasons for the baptism' of
   Israel before entering into covenant with God. In Kerith, 9 a the
   baptism' of Israel is proved from Ex. xxiv. 5, since every sprinkling
   of blood was supposed to be preceded by immersion. In Siphré on Numb.
   (ed. Weiss, p. 30 b) we are also distinctly told of baptism' as one of
   the three things by which Israel was admitted into the Covenant.

   [1395] This may help us, even at this stage, to understand why our
   Lord, in the fulfilment of all righteousness, submitted to baptism. It
   seems also to explain why, after the coming of Christ, the baptism of
   John was alike unavailing and even meaningless (Acts xix. 3-5). Lastly,
   it also shows how he that is least in the Kingdom of God is really
   greater than John himself (St. Luke vii. 28).
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XII.
THE BAPTISM OF JESUS: ITS HIGHER MEANING.

   (St. Matt. iii. 13-17; St. Mark i. 7-11; St. Luke iii. 21-23; St. John
   i. 32-34.)

   The more we think of it, the better do we seem to understand how that
   Voice crying in the wilderness: Repent! for the Kingdom of Heaven is at
   hand,' awakened echoes throughout the land, and brought from city,
   village, and hamlet strangest hearers. For once, every distinction was
   levelled. Pharisee and Sadducee, outcast publican and semi-heathen
   soldier, met here as on common ground. Their bond of union was the
   common hope of Israel' - the only hope that remained: that of the
   Kingdom.' The long winter of disappointment had not destroyed, nor the
   storms of suffering swept away, nor yet could any plant of spurious
   growth overshadow, what had struck its roots so deep in the soil of
   Israel's heart.

   That Kingdom had been the last word of the Old Testament. As the
   thoughtful Israelite, whether Eastern or Western, [1396] viewed even
   the central part of his worship in sacrifices, and remembered that his
   own Scriptures had spoken of them in terms which pointed to something
   beyond their offering, [1397] he must have felt that the blood of bulls
   and of goats, and the ashes of an heifer sprinkling the unclean,' could
   only sanctify to the purifying of the flesh;' that, indeed, the whole
   body of ceremonial and ritual ordinances could not make him that did
   the service perfect as pertaining to the conscience.' They were only
   the shadow of good things to come;' of a new' and better covenant,
   established upon better promises.' [1398] It was otherwise with the
   thought of the Kingdom. Each successive link in the chain of prophecy
   bound Israel anew to this hope, and each seemed only more firmly welded
   than the other. And when the voice of prophecy had ceased, the
   sweetness of its melody still held the people spell-bound, even when
   broken in the wild fantasies of Apocalyptic literature. Yet that root
   of Jesse,' whence this Kingdom was to spring, was buried deep under
   ground, as the remains of ancient Jerusalem are now under the
   desolations of many generations. Egyptian, Syrian, Greek, and Roman had
   trodden it under foot; the Maccabees had come and gone, and it was not
   in them; the Herodian kingdom had risen and fallen; Pharisaism, with
   its learning, had overshadowed thoughts of the priesthood and of
   prophetism; but the hope of that Davidic Kingdom, of which there was
   not a single trace or representative left, was even stronger than
   before. So closely has it been intertwined with the very life of the
   nation, that, to all believing Israelites, this hope has through the
   long night of ages, been like that eternal lamp which burns in the
   darkness of the Synagogue, in front of the heavy veil that shrines the
   Sanctuary, which holds and conceals the precious rolls of the Law and
   the Prophets.

   This great expectancy would be strung to utmost tension during the
   pressure of outward circumstances more hopeless than any hitherto
   experienced. Witness here the ready credence which impostors found,
   whose promises and schemes were of the wildest character; witness the
   repeated attempts at risings, which only despair could have prompted;
   witness, also, the last terrible war against Rome, and, despite the
   horrors of its end, the rebellion of Bar-Kokhabh, the false Messiah.
   And now the cry had been suddenly raised: The Kingdom of Heaven is at
   hand!' It was heard in the wilderness of Judæa, within a few hours'
   distance from Jerusalem. No wonder Pharisee and Sadducee flocked to the
   spot. How many of them came to inquire, how many remained to be
   baptized, or how many went away disappointed in their hopes of the
   Kingdom,' we know not. [1399] But they would not see anything in the
   messenger that could have given their expectations a rude shock. His
   was not a call to armed resistance, but to repentance, such as all knew
   and felt must precede the Kingdom. The hope which he held out was not
   of earthly possessions, but of purity. There was nothing negative or
   controversial in what he spoke; nothing to excite prejudice or passion.
   His appearance would command respect, and his character was in
   accordance with his appearance. Not rich nor yet Pharisaic garb with
   wide Tsitsith, [1400] bound with many-coloured or even priestly girdle,
   but the old prophet's poor raiment held in by a leathern girdle. Not
   luxurious life, but one of meanest fare. [1401] And then, all in the
   man was true and real. Not a reed shaken by the wind,' but unbendingly
   firm in deep and settled conviction; not ambitious nor self-seeking,
   but most humble in his self-estimate, discarding all claim but that of
   lowliest service, and pointing away from himself to Him Who was to
   come, and Whom as yet he did not even know. Above all, there was the
   deepest earnestess, the most utter disregard of man, the most firm
   belief in what he announced. For himself he sought nothing; for them he
   had only one absorbing thought: The Kingdom was at hand, the King was
   coming - let them prepare!

   Such entire absorption in his mission, which leaves us in ignorance of
   even the details of his later activity, must have given force to his
   message. [1402] And still the voice, everywhere proclaiming the same
   message, travelled upward, along the winding Jordon which cleft the
   land of promise. It was probably the autumn of the year 779 (a.u.c.),
   which, it may be noted, was a Sabbatic year. [1403] Released from
   business and agriculture, the multitudes flocked around him as he
   passed on his Mission. Rapidly the tidings spread from town and village
   to distant homestead, still swelling the numbers that hastened to the
   banks of the sacred river. He had now reached what seems to have been
   the most northern point of his Mission-journey, [1404] Beth-Abara (the
   house of passage,' or of shipping') - according to the ancient reading,
   Bethany (the house of shipping') - one of the best known fords across
   the Jordan into Peræa. [1405] Here he baptized. [1406] The ford was
   little more than twenty miles from Nazareth. But long before John had
   reached that spot, tidings of his word and work must have come even
   into the retirement of Jesus' Home-Life.

   It was now, as we take it, the early winter of the year 780. [1407]
   Jesus had waited those months. Although there seems not to have been
   any personal acquaintance between Jesus and John - and how could there
   be, when their spheres lay so widely apart? - each must have heard and
   known of the other. Thirty years of silence weaken most human
   impressions - or, if they deepen, the enthusiasm that had accompanied
   them passes away. Yet, when the two met, and perhaps had brief
   conversation, each bore himself in accordance with his previous
   history. With John it was deepest, reverent humility - even to the
   verge of misunderstanding his special Mission, and work of initiation
   and preparation for the Kingdom. He had heard of Him before by the
   hearing of the ear, and when now he saw Him, that look of quiet
   dignity, of the majesty of unsullied purity in the only Unfallen,
   Unsinning Man, made him forget even the express command of God, which
   had sent him from his solitude to preach and baptize, and that very
   sign which had been him by which to recognise the Messiah. [1408]
   [1409] In that Presence it only became to him a question of the more
   worthy' to the misunderstanding of the nature of his special calling.

   But Jesus, as He had not made haste, so was He not capable of
   misunderstanding. To Him it was the fulfilling of all righteousness.'
   From earliest ages it has been a question why Jesus went to be
   baptized. The heretical Gospels put into the mouth of the Virgin-Mother
   an invitation to go to that baptism, to which Jesus is supposed to have
   replied by pointing to His own sinlessness, except it might be on the
   score of ignorance, in regard to a limitation of knowledge. [1410]
   Objections lie to most of the explanations offered by modern writers.
   They include a bold denial of the fact of Jesus' Baptism; the profane
   suggestion of collusion between John and Jesus; or such suppositions,
   as that of His personal sinfulness, of His coming as the Representative
   of a guilty race, or as the bearer of the sins of others, or of acting
   in solidarity with His people - or else to separate Himself from the
   sins of Israel; of His surrendering Himself thereby unto death for man;
   of His purpose to do honour to the baptism of John; or thus to elicit a
   token of His Messiahship; or to bind Himself to the observance of the
   Law; or in this manner to commence His Messianic Work; or to consecrate
   Himself solemnly to it; or, lastly, to receive the spiritual
   qualification for it. [1411] To these and similar views must be added
   the latest conceit of Renan, [1412] who arranges a scene between Jesus,
   who comes with some disciples, and John, when Jesus is content for a
   time to grow in the shadow of John, and to submit to a rite which was
   evidently so generally acknowledged. But the most reverent of these
   explanations involve a twofold mistake. They represent the Baptism of
   John as one of repentance, and they imply an ulterior motive in the
   coming of Christ to the banks of Jordan. But, as already shown, the
   Baptism of John was in itself only a consecration to, and preparatory
   initiation for, the new Covenant of the Kingdom. As applied to sinful
   men it was indeed necessarily a baptism of repentance;' but not as
   applied to the sinless Jesus. Had it primarily and always been a
   baptism of repentance,' He could not have submitted to it.

   Again, and most important of all, we must not seek for any ulterior
   motive in the coming of Jesus to this Baptism. He had no ulterior
   motive of any kind: it was an act of simple submissive obedience on the
   part of the Perfect One - and submissive obedience has no motive beyond
   itself. It asks no reasons; it cherishes no ulterior purpose. And thus
   it was the fulfilment of all righteousness.' And it was in perfect
   harmony with all His previous life. Our difficulty here lies - if we
   are unbelievers, in thinking simply of the Humanity of the Man of
   Nazareth; if we are believers, in making abstraction of his Divinity.
   But thus much, at least, all must concede, that the Gospels always
   present Him as the God-Man, in an inseparable mystical union of the two
   natures, and that they present to us the even more mysterious idea of
   His Self-exinanition, of the voluntary obscuration of His Divinity, as
   part of His Humiliation. Placing ourselves on this standpoint - which
   is, at any rate, that of the Evangelic narrative - we may arrive at a
   more correct view of this great event. It seems as if, in the Divine
   Self-exinanition, apparently necessarily connected with the perfect
   human development of Jesus, some corresponding outward event were ever
   the occasion of a fresh advance in the Messianic consciousness and
   work. The first event of that kind had been his appearance in the
   Temple. These two things then stood out vividly before Him - not in the
   ordinary human, but in the Messianic sense: that the Temple was the
   House of His Father, and that to be busy about it was His Life-work.
   With this He returned to Nazareth, and in willing subjection to His
   Parents fulfilled all righteousness. And still, as He grew in years, in
   wisdom, and in favour with God and Man, this thought - rather this
   burning consciousness, was the inmost spring of His Life. What this
   business specially was, He knew not yet, and waited to learn; the how
   and the when of His life-consecration, He left unasked and unanswered
   in the still waiting for Him. And in this also we see the Sinless, the
   Perfect One.

   When tidings of John's Baptism reached His home, there could be no
   haste on His part. Even with knowledge of all that concerned John's
   relation to Him, there was in the fulfilment of all righteousness'
   quiet waiting. The one question with Him was, as He afterwards put it:
   The Baptism of John, whence was it? from heaven, or of men?' (St. Matt.
   xxi. 25). That question once answered, there could be no longer doubt
   nor hesitation. He went - not for any ulterior purpose, nor from any
   other motive than that it was of God. He went voluntarily, because it
   was such - and because it became Him' in so doing to fulfill all
   righteousness.' There is this great difference between His going to
   that Baptism, and afterwards into the wilderness: in the former case,
   His act was of preconceived purpose; in the latter it was not so, but
   He was driven' - without previous purpose to that effect - under the
   constraining power of the Spirit,' without premeditation and resolve of
   it; without even knowledge of its object. In the one case He was
   active, in the other passive; in the one case He fulfilled
   righteousness, in the other His righteousness was tried. But as, on His
   first visit to the Temple, this consciousness about His Life-business
   came to Him in His Father's House, ripening slowly and fully those long
   years of quiet submission and growing wisdom and grace at Nazareth, so
   at His Baptism, with the accompanying descent of the Holy Ghost, His
   abiding in Him, and the heard testimony from His Father, the knowledge
   came to Him, and, in and with [1413] that knowledge, the qualification
   for the business of His Father's House. In that hour He learned the
   when, and in part the how, of His Life-business; the latter to be still
   farther, and from another aspect, seen in the wilderness, then in His
   life, in His suffering, and, finally, in His death. In man the
   subjective and the objective, alike intellectually and morally, are
   ever separate; in God they are one. What He is, that He wills. And in
   the God-Man also we must not separate the subjective and the objective.
   The consciousness of the when and the how of His Life-business was
   necessarily accompanied, while He prayed, by the descent, and the
   abiding in Him, of the Holy Ghost, and by the testifying Voice from
   heaven. His inner knowledge was real qualification - the forth-bursting
   of His Power; and it was inseparably accompanied by outward
   qualification, in what took place at His Baptism. But the first step to
   all was His voluntary descent to Jordan, and in it the fulfilling of
   all righteousness. His previous life had been that of the Perfect Ideal
   Israelite - believing, unquestioning, submissive - in preparation for
   that which, in His thirteenth year, He had learned as its business. The
   Baptism of Christ was the last act of His private life; and, emerging
   from its waters in prayer, He learned: when His business was to
   commence, and how it would be done.

   That one outstanding thought, then, I must be about My Father's
   business,' which had been the principle of His Nazareth life, had come
   to full ripeness when He knew that the cry, The Kingdom of Heaven is at
   hand,' was from God. The first great question was now answered. His
   Father's business was the Kingdom of Heaven. It only remained for Him
   to be about it,' and in this determination He went to submit to its
   initiatory rite of Baptism. We have, as we understand it, distinct
   evidence - even if it were not otherwise necessary to suppose this -
   that all the people had been baptized,' [1414] when Jesus came to John.
   Alone the two met - probably for the first time in their lives. Over
   that which passed between them Holy Scripture has laid the veil of
   reverent silence, save as regards the beginning and the outcome of
   their meeting, which it was necessary for us to know. When Jesus came,
   John knew Him not. And even when He knew Him, that was not enough. Not
   remembrance of what he had heard and of past transactions, nor the
   overwhelming power of that spotless Purity and Majesty of willing
   submission, were sufficient. For so great a witness as that which John
   was to bear, a present and visible demonstration from heaven was to be
   given. Not that God sent the Spirit-Dove, or heaven uttered its voice,
   for the purpose of giving this as a sign to John. These manifestations
   were necessary in themselves, and, we might say, would have taken place
   quite irrespective of the Baptist. But, while necessary in themselves,
   they were also to be a sign to John. And this may perhaps explain why
   one Gospel (that of St. John) seems to describe the scene as enacted
   before the Baptist, whilst others (St. Matthew and St. Mark) tell it as
   if only visible to Jesus. [1415] The one bears reference to the
   record,' the other to the deeper and absolutely necessary fact which
   underly the record.' And, beyond this, it may help us to perceive at
   least one aspect of what to man is the miraculous: as in itself the
   higher Necessary, with casual and secondary manifestation to man.

   We can understand how what he knew of Jesus, and what he now saw and
   heard, must have overwhelmed John with the sense of Christ's
   transcendentally higher dignity, and led him to hesitate about, if not
   to refuse, administering to Him the rite of Baptism. [1416] Not because
   it was the baptism of repentance,' but because he stood in the presence
   of Him the latchet of Whose shoes' he was not worthy to loose.' Had he
   not so felt, the narrative would not have been psychologically true;
   and, had it not been recorded, there would have been serious difficulty
   to our reception of it. And yet, withal, in so forbidding' Him, and
   even suggesting his own baptism by Jesus, John forgot and misunderstood
   his mission. John himself was never to be baptized; he only held open
   the door of the new Kingdom; himself entered it not, and he that was
   least in that Kingdom was greater than he. Such lowliest place on earth
   seems ever conjoined with greatest work for God. Yet this
   misunderstanding and suggestion on the part of John might almost be
   regarded as a temptation to Christ. Not perhaps, His first, nor yet
   this His first victory, since the sorrow' of His Parents about His
   absence from them when in the Temple must to the absolute
   submissiveness of Jesus have been a temptation to turn aside from His
   path, all the more felt in the tenderness of His years, and the
   inexperience of a first public appearance. He then overcame by the
   clear consciousness of His Life-business, which could not be
   contravened by any apparent call of duty, however specious. And He now
   overcame by falling back upon the simple and clear principle which had
   brought him to Jordan: It becometh us to fulfil all righteousness.'
   Thus, simply putting aside, without argument, the objection of the
   Baptist, He followed the Hand that pointed Him to the open door of the
   Kingdom.'

   Jesus stepped out of the baptismal waters praying.' [1417] One prayer,
   the only one which He taught His disciples, recurs to our minds. [1418]
   We must here individualise and emphasise in their special application
   its opening sentences: Our Father Which art in heaven, hallowed be Thy
   Name! Thy Kingdom come! They will be done in earth, as it is in
   heaven!' The first thought and the first petition had been the
   conscious outcome of the Temple-visit, ripened during the long years at
   Nazareth. The others were now the full expression of His submission to
   Baptism. He knew His Mission; He had consecrated Himself to it in His
   Baptism; Father Which art in heaven, hallowed be Thy Name.' The
   unlimited petition for the doing of God's Will on earth with the same
   absoluteness as in heaven, was His self-consecration: the prayer of His
   Baptism, as the other was its confession. And the hallowed be Thy Name'
   was the eulogy, because the ripened and experimental principle of His
   Life. How this Will, connected with the Kingdom,' was to be done by
   Him, and when, He was to learn after His Baptism. But strange, that the
   petition which followed those which must have been on the lips of Jesus
   in that hour should have been the subject of the first temptation or
   assault by the Enemy; strange also, that the other two temptations
   should have rolled back the force of the assault upon the two great
   experiences He had gained, and which formed the burden of the
   petitions, Thy Kingdom come; Hallowed be Thy Name.' Was it then so,
   that all the assaults which Jesus bore only concerned and tested the
   reality of a past and already attained experience, save those last in
   the Garden and on the Cross, which were sufferigs' by which He was made
   perfect?'

   But, as we have already seen, such inward forth-bursting of Messianic
   consciousness could not be separated from objective qualification for,
   and testimony to it. As the prayer of Jesus winged heavenwards, His
   solemn response to the call of the Kingdom - Here am I;' Lo, I come to
   do Thy Will' - the answer came, which at the same time was also the
   predicted sign to the Baptist. Heaven seemed cleft, and in bodily shape
   like a dove, the Holy Ghost descended on [1419] Jesus, remaining on
   him. It was as if, symbolically, in the words of St. Peter, [1420] that
   Baptism had been a new flood, and He Who now emerged from it, the Noah
   - or rest, and comfort-bringer - Who took into His Ark the dove bearing
   the olive-branch, indicative of a new life. Here, at these waters, was
   the Kingdom, into which Jesus had entered in the fulfilment of all
   righteousness; and from them he emerged as its Heaven-designated,
   Heaven-qualified, and Heaven-proclaimed King. As such he had received
   the fulness of the Spirit for His Messianic Work - a fulness abiding in
   Him - that out of it we might receive, and grace for grace. As such
   also the voice from Heaven proclaimed it, to Him and to John: Thou art
   (this is') My Beloved Son, in Whom I am well pleased.' The ratification
   of the great Davidic promise, the announcement of the fulfilment of its
   predictive import in Psalm ii. [1421] was God's solemn declaration of
   Jesus as the Messiah, His public proclamation of it, and the beginning
   of Jesus' Messianic work. And so the Baptist understood it, when he
   bare record' that He was the Son of God.' [1422]

   Quite intelligible as all this is, it is certainly miraculous; not,
   indeed, in the sense of contravention of the Laws of Nature (illogical
   as that phrase is), but in that of having nothing analogous in our
   present knowledge and experience. But would we not have expected the
   supra-empirical, the directly heavenly, to attend such an event - that
   is, if the narrative itself be true, and Jesus what the Gospels
   represent Him? To reject, therefore, the narrative because of its
   supra-empirical accompaniment seems, after all, a sad inversion of
   reasoning, and begging the question. But, to go a step further: if
   there be no reality in the narrative, whence the invention of the
   legend? It certainly had no basis in contemporary Jewish teaching; and,
   equally certainly, it would not have spontaneously occurred to Jewish
   minds. Nowhere in Rabbinic writings do we find any hint of a Baptism of
   the Messiah, nor of a descent upon Him of the Spirit in the form of a
   dove. Rather would such views seem, à priori, repugnant to Jewish
   thinking. An attempt has, however, been made in the direction of
   identifying two traits in this narrative with Rabbinic notices. The
   Voice from heaven' has been represented as the Bath-Qol,' or
   Daughter-Voice,' of which we read in Rabbinic writings, as bringing
   heaven's testimony or decision to perplexed or hardly bestead Rabbis.
   And it has been further asserted, that among the Jews the dove' was
   regarded as the emblem of the Spirit. In taking notice of these
   assertions some warmth of language may be forgiven.


   We make bold to maintain that no one, who has impartially examined the
   matter, [1423] could find any real analogy between the so-called
   Bath-Qol, and the Voice from heaven' of which record is made in the New
   Testament. However opinions might differ, on one thing all were agreed:
   the Bath-Qol had come after the voice of prophecy and the Holy Ghost
   had ceased in Israel, [1424] and, so to speak, had taken, their place.
   [1425] But at the Baptism of Jesus the descent of the Holy Ghost was
   accompanied by the Voice from Heaven. Even on this ground, therefore,
   it could not have been the Rabbinic Bath-Qol. But, further, this
   Daughter-Voice' was regarded rather as the echo of, than as the Voice
   of God itself [1426] (Toseph. Sanh. xi. 1). The occasions on which this
   Daughter-Voice' was supposed to have been heard are so various and
   sometimes so shocking, both to common and to moral sense, that a
   comparison with the Gospels is wholly out of the question. And here it
   also deserves notice, that references to this Bath-Qol increase the
   farther we remove from the age of Christ. [1427]

   We have reserved to the last the consideration of the statement, that
   among the Jews the Holy Spirit was presented under the symbol of a
   dove. It is admitted, that there is no support for this idea either in
   the Old Testament or in the writings of Philo (Lücke, Evang. Joh. i.
   pp. 425, 426); that, indeed, such animal symbolism of the Divine is
   foreign to the Old Testament. But all the more confident appeal is made
   to Rabbinic writings. The suggestion was, apparently, first made by
   Wetstein. [1428] It is dwelt upon with much confidence by Gfrörer
   [1429] and others, as evidence of the mythical origin of the Gospels;
   [1430] it is repeated by Wünsche, and even reproduced by writers who,
   had they known the real state of matters, would not have lent their
   authority to it. Of the two passages by which this strange hypothesis
   is supported, that in the Targum on Cant. ii. 12 may at once be
   dismissed, as dating considerably after the close of the Talmud. There
   remains, therefore, only the one passage in the Talmud, [1431] which is
   generally thus quoted: The Spirit of God moved on the face of the
   waters, like a dove.' [1432] That this quotation is incomplete,
   omitting the most important part, is only a light charge against it.
   For, if fully made, it would only the more clearly be seen to be
   inapplicable. The passage (Chag. 15 a) treats of the supposed distance
   between the upper and the lower waters,' which is stated to amount to
   only three fingerbreadths. This is proved by a reference to Gen. i. 2,
   where the Spirit of God is said to brood over the face of the waters,
   just as a dove broodeth over her young without touching them.' It will
   be noticed, that the comparison is not between the Spirit and the dove,
   but between the closeness with which a dove broods over her young
   without touching them, and the supposed proximity of the Spirit to the
   lower waters without touching them. [1433] But, if any doubt could
   still exist, it would be removed by the fact that in a parallel
   passage, [1434] the expression used is not dove' but that bird.' Thus
   much for this oft-misquoted passage. But we go farther, and assert,
   that the dove was not the symbol of the Holy Spirit, but that of
   Israel. As such it is so universally adopted as to have become almost
   historical. [1435] If, therefore, Rabbinic illustration of the descent
   of the Holy Spirit with the visible appearance of a dove must be sought
   for, it would lie in the acknowledgment of Jesus as the ideal typical
   Israelite, the Representative of His People.

   The lengthened details, which have been necessary for the exposure of
   the mythical theory, will not have been without use, if they carry to
   the mind the conviction that this history had no basis in existing
   Jewish belief. Its origin cannot, therefore, be rationally accounted
   for, except by the answer which Jesus, when He came to Jordan, gave to
   that grand fundamental question: The Baptism of John, whence was it?
   From Heaven, or of men?' [1436]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [1396] It may be said that the fundamental tendency of Rabbinism was
   anti-sacrificial, as regarded the value of sacrifices in commending the
   offerer to God. After the destruction of the Temple it was, of course,
   the task of Rabbinism to show that sacrifices had no intrinsic
   importance, and that their place was taken by prayer, penitence, and
   good works. So against objectors on the ground of Jer. xxxiii. 18 - but
   see the answer in Yalkut on the passage (vol. ii. p. 67 a, towards the
   end) dogmatically (Bab. B. 10 b; Vayyikra R. 7, ed. Warsh. vol. iii. p.
   12 a): he that doeth repentance, it is imputed to him as if he went up
   to Jerusalem, built the Temple and altar, and wrought all the
   sacrifices in the Law'; and in view of the cessation of sacrifices in
   the Athid.labho' (Vay, u.s.; Tanch. on Par. Shemini). Soon, prayer or
   study were put even above sacrifices (Ber. 32 b; Men. 110 a), and an
   isolated teacher went so far as to regard the introduction of
   sacrificial worship as merely intended to preserve Israel from
   conforming to heathen worship (Vayyikra R. 22, u. s. p. 34 b, close).
   On the other hand, individuals seemed to have offered sacrifices even
   after the destruction of the Temple (Eduy. viii. 6; Mechilta on Ex.
   xviii. 27, ed. Weiss, p. 68 b).

   [1397] Comp. 1 Sam. xv. 22; Ps. xl. 6-8; li. 7, 17; Is. i. 11-13; Jer.
   vii. 22, 23; Amos v. 21, 22; Ecclus. vii. 9; xxxiv. 18, 19; xxxv. 1, 7.

   [1398] Hebr. ix. 13, 9; x. 1; viii. 6, 13. On this subject we refer to
   the classical work of Riehm (Lehrbegriff des Hebraerbriefes, 1867).

   [1399] Ancient commentators supposed that they came from hostile
   motives; later writers that curiosity prompted them. Neither of these
   views is admissible, nor does St. Luke vii. 30 imply, that all the
   Pharisees who come to him rejected his baptism.

   [1400] Comp. St. Matt. xxiii. 5. The Tsitsith (plural, Tsitsiyoth), or
   borders (corners, wings') of the garments, or rather the fringes
   fastened to them. The observance was based on Numb. xv. 38-41, and the
   Jewish practice of it is indicated not only in the N.T. (u. s., comp.
   also St. Matt. ix. 20; xiv. 36) but in the Targumim on Numb. xv. 38, 39
   (comp. also Targ. Pseudo-Jon. on Numb. xvi. 1, 2, where the peculiar
   colour of the Tsitsith is represented as the cause of the controversy
   between Moses and Korah. But see the version of this story in Jer.
   Sanh. x. p. 27 d, end). The Tsitsith were originally directed to be of
   white threads, with one thread of deep blue in each fringe. According
   to tradition, each of these white fringes is to consist of eight
   threads, one of them wound round the others: first, seven times with a
   double knot; then eight times with a double knot (7 + 8 numerically =
   {hebrew}); then eleven times with a double knot (11 numerically =
   {hebrew};) and lastly, thirteen times (13 numerically = {hebrew}; or,
   altogether {hebrew}, Jehovah One). Again, it is pointed out that as
   Tsitsith is numerically equal to 600 ({hebrew}), this, with the eight
   threads and five knots, gives the number 613, which is that of the
   Commandments. At present the Tsitsith are worn as a special
   undergarment (the {hebrew}) or on the Tallith or prayer-mantle, but
   anciently they seem to have been worn on the outer garment itself. In
   Bemidbar R. 17, end (ed. Warsh, vol. iv. p. 69 a), the blue is
   represented as emblematic of the sky, and the latter as of the throne
   of God (Ex. xxiv. 10). Hence to look upon the Tsitsith was like looking
   at the throne of glory (Schürer is mistaken in supposing that the
   tractate Tsitsith in the Septem Libri Talmud. par. pp. 22, 23, contains
   much information on the subject).

   [1401] Such certainly was John the Baptist's. Some locusts were lawful
   to be eaten, Lev. xi. 22. Comp. Terum. 59 a; and, on the various
   species, Chull. 65.

   [1402] Deeply as we appreciate the beauty of Keim's remarks about the
   character and views of John, we feel only the more that such a man
   could not have taken the public position nor made such public
   proclamation of the Kingdom as at hand, without a direct and objective
   call to it from God. The treatment of John's earlier history by Keim
   is, of course, without historical basis.

   [1403] The year from Tishri (autumn) 779 to Tishri 780 was a Sabbatic
   year. Comp. the evidence in Wieseler, Synopse d. Evang. pp. 204, 205.

   [1404] We read of three places where John baptized: the wilderness of
   Judæa' - probably the traditional site near Jericho; Ænon, near Salim,
   on the boundary between Samaria and Judæa (Conder's Handbook of the
   Bible, p. 320); and Beth-Abara, the modern Abarah, one of the main
   Jordan fords, a little north of Beisân' (u. s.).

   [1405] It is one of the merits of Lieut. Conder to have identified the
   site of Beth-Abara. The word probably means the house of passage'
   (fords), but may also mean the house of shipping,' the word Abarah in
   Hebrew meaning ferryboat,' 2 Sam. xix. 18. The reading Bethania instead
   of Bethabara seems undoubtedly the original one, only the word must not
   be derived (as by Mr. Conder, whose explanations and comments are often
   untenable), from the province Batanea, but explained as Beth-Oniyah,
   the house of shipping.' (See Lücke, Comment. u. d. Evang. Joh. i. pp.
   392. 393.).

   [1406] St. John i. 28.

   [1407] Considerable probability attaches to the tradition of the
   Basilideans, that our Lord's Baptism took place on the 6th or 10th of
   January. (See Bp. Ellicott's Histor. Lect. on the Life of our Lord
   Jesus Christ, p. 105, note 2.

   [1408] St. John i. 33.

   [1409] The superficial objection on the supposed discrepancy between
   St. Matthew iii. 14 and St. John i. 33 has been well put aside by Bp.
   Ellicott (u. s. p. 107, note).

   [1410] Comp. Nicholson, Gospel according to the Hebrews, pp. 38, 92,
   93.

   [1411] It would occupy too much space to give the names of the authors
   of these theories. The views of Godet come nearest to what we regard as
   the true explanation.

   [1412] I must here, once for all, express my astonishment that a book
   so frivolous and fantastic in its treatment of the Life of Jesus, and
   so superficial and often inaccurate, should have excited so much public
   attention.

   [1413] But the latter must be firmly upheld.

   [1414] St. Luke iii. 21.

   [1415] The account by St. Luke seems to me to include both. The common
   objection on the score of the supposed divergence between St. John and
   the Synoptists is thus met.

   [1416] The expression diekluen (St. Matt iii. 14: John forbade Him')
   implies earnest resistance (comp. Meyer ad locum).

   [1417] St. Luke iii. 21.

   [1418] It seems to me that the prayer which the Lord taught His
   disciples must have had its root in, and taken its start from, His own
   inner Life. At the same time it is adapted to our wants. Much in that
   prayer has, of course, no application to Him, but is His application of
   the doctrine of the Kingdom to our state and wants.

   [1419] Whether or not we adopt the reading es atn in St. Mark i. 10,
   the remaining of the Holy Spirit upon Jesus is clearly expressed in St.
   John i. 32.

   [1420] 1 St. Pet. iii. 21.

   [1421] Here the Targum on Ps. ii. 7, which is evidently intended to
   weaken the Messianic interpretation, gives us welcome help. It
   paraphrases: Beloved as a son to his father art Thou to Me.' Keim
   regards the words, Thou art my beloved Son,' &c., as a mixture of Is.
   xlii. 1 and Ps. ii. 7. I cannot agree with this view, though this
   history is the fulfilment of the prediction in Isaiah.

   [1422] St. John i. 34.

   [1423] Dr. Wünsche's Rabbinic notes on the Bath-Qol (Neue Beitr. pp.
   22, 23) are taken from Hamburger's Real-Encykl. (Abth. ii. pp. 92 &c.)

   [1424] Jer. Sot. ix. 14; Yoma 9 b; Sotah 33 a; 48 b; Sanh 11 a.

   [1425] Hamburger, indeed maintains, on the ground of Macc. 23 b, that
   occasionally it was identified with the Holy Spirit. But carefully
   read, neither this passage, nor the other, in which the same
   mistranslation, and profane misinterpretation of the words She has been
   more righteous' (Gen. xxxviii. 26) occur (Jer. Sot. ix. 7), at all
   bears out this suggestion. It is quite untenable in view of the
   distinct statements (Jer. Sot. ix. 14; Sot. 48 b; and Sanh. 11a), that
   after the cessation of the Holy Spirit the Bath-Qol took His place.

   [1426] Comp. on the subject Pinner in his Introduction to the tractate
   Berakhoth.

   [1427] In the Targum Onkelos it is not at all mentioned. In the Targum
   PseudoJon. it occurs four times (Gen. xxxviii. 26; Numb. xxi. 6; Deut.
   xxviii. 15; xxxiv. 5), and four times in the Targum on the Hagiographa
   (twice in Ecclesiastes, once in Lamentations, and once in Esther). In
   Mechilta and Siphra it does not occur at all, and in Siphré only once,
   in the absurd legend that the Bath-Qol was heard a distance of twelve
   times twelve miles proclaiming the death of Moses (ed. Friedmann, p.
   149 b). In the Mishnah it is only twice mentioned (Yeb. xvi. 6, where
   the sound of a Bath-Qol is supposed to be sufficient attestation of a
   man's death to enable his wife to marry again; and in Abhoth vi. 2,
   where it is impossible to understand the language otherwise than
   figuratively). In the Jerusalem Talmud the Bath-Qol is referred to
   twenty times, and in the Babylon Talmud sixty-nine times. Sometimes the
   Bath-Qol gives sentence in favour of a popular Rabbi, sometimes it
   attempts to decide controversies, or bears witness; or else it is said
   every day to proclaim: Such an one's daughter is destined for such an
   one (Moed Kat. 18 b; Sot. 2 a; Sanh. 22 a). Occasionally it utters
   curious or profane interpretations of Scripture (as in Yoma 22 b; Sot.
   10 b), or silly legends, as in regard to the insect Yattush which was
   to torture Titus (Gitt. 56 b), or as warning against a place where a
   hatchet had fallen into the water, descending for seven years without
   reaching the bottom. Indeed, so strong became the feeling against this
   superstition, that the more rational Rabbis protested against any
   appeal to the Bath-Qol (Baba Metsia 59 b).

   [1428] Nov. Test. i. p. 268.

   [1429] The force of Gfrörer's attacks upon the Gospels lies in his
   cumulative attempts to prove that the individual miraculous facts
   recorded in the Gospels are based upon Jewish notions. It is,
   therefore, necessary to examine each of them separately, and such
   examination, it careful and conscientious, shows that his quotations
   are often untrustworthy, and his conclusions fallacies. None the less
   taking are they to those who are imperfectly acquainted with Rabbinic
   literature. Wünsche's Talmudic and Midrashic Notes on the N.T.
   (Gottingen, 1878) are also too often misleading.

   [1430] Jahrh. des Heils, vol. ii. p. 433.

   [1431] Chag. 15 a.

   [1432] Farrar, Life of Christ, i. p. 117.

   [1433] The saying in Chag. 15 a is of Ben Soma, who is described in
   Rabbinic literature as tainted with Christian views, and whose belief
   in the possibility of the supernatural birth of the Messiah is so
   coarsely satirised in the Talmud. Rabbi Löw (Lebensalter. p. 58)
   suggests that in Ben Soma's figure of the dove there may have been a
   Christian reminiscence.

   [1434] Ber. R. 2.

   [1435] Comp. the long illustrations in the Midr. on Song i. 15; Sanh.
   95 a; Ber. R. 39; Yalkut on Ps. 1v. 7. and other passages.

   [1436] St. Matt. xxi. 25.
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

                                   Book III.

   ____


   THE ASCENT:

   FROM THE RIVER JORDAN TO THE MOUNT OF

   TRANSFIGURATION.

   ______________


   {hebrew}

   In every passage of Scripture where thou findest the Majesty of God,
   thou also findest close by His Condescension (Humility). So it is
   written down in the Law [Deut. x. 17, followed by verse 18], repeated
   in the Prophets [Is. lvii. 15], and reiterated in the Hagiographa [Ps.
   lxviii. 4, followed by verse 5].' - Megill 31 a.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER I.
THE TEMPTATION OF JESUS

   (St. Matt. iv. 1-11; St. Mark i. 12, 13; St. Luke iv. 1-13.)

   The proclamation and inauguration of the Kingdom of Heaven' at such a
   time, and under such circumstances, was one of the great antitheses of
   history. With reverence be it said, it is only God Who would thus begin
   His Kingdom. A similar, even greater antithesis, was the commencement
   of the Ministry of Christ. From the Jordan to the wilderness with its
   wild Beasts; from the devout acknowledgment of the Baptist, the
   consecration and filial prayer of Jesus, the descent of the Holy
   Spirit, and the heard testimony of Heaven, to the utter foresakeness,
   the felt want and weakness of Jesus, and the assaults of the Devil - no
   contrast more startling could be conceived. And yet, as we think of it,
   what followed upon the Baptism, and that it so followed, was necessary,
   as regarded the Person of Jesus, His Work, and that which was to result
   from it.

   Psychologically, and as regarded the Work of Jesus, even reverent
   negative Critics [1437] have perceived its higher need. That at His
   consecration to the Kingship of the Kingdom, Jesus should have become
   clearly conscious of all that it implied in a world of sin; that the
   Divine method by which that Kingdom should be established, should have
   been clearly brought out, and its reality tested; and that the King, as
   Representative and Founder of the Kingdom, should have encountered and
   defeated the representative, founder, and holder of the opposite power,
   the prince of this world' - these are thoughts which must arise in
   everyone who believes in any Mission of the Christ. Yet this only as,
   after the events, we have learned to know the character of that
   Mission, not as we might have preconceived it. We can understand, how a
   Life and Work such as that of Jesus, would commence with the
   Temptation,' but none other than His. Judaism never conceived such an
   idea; because it never conceived a Messiah like Jesus. It is quite true
   that long previous Biblical teaching, and even the psychological
   necessity of the case, must have pointed to temptation and victory as
   the condition of spiritual greatness. It could not have been otherwise
   in a world hostile to God, nor yet in man, whose conscious choice
   determines his position. No crown of victory without previous contest,
   and that proportionately to its brightness; no moral ideal without
   personal attainment and probation. The patriarchs had been tried and
   proved; so had Moses, and all the heroes of faith in Israel. And
   Rabbinic legend, enlarging upon the Biblical narratives, has much to
   tell of the original envy of the Angels; of the assaults of Satan upon
   Abraham, when about to offer up Isaac; of attempted resistance by the
   Angels to Israel's reception of the Law; and of the final vain
   endeavour of Satan to take away the soul of Moses. [1438] Foolish,
   repulsive, and even blasphemous as some of these legends are, thus much
   at least clearly stood out, that spiritual trials must precede
   spiritual elevation. In their own language: The Holy One, blessed be
   His Name, does not elevate a man to dignity till He has first tried and
   searched him; and if he stands in temptation, then He raises him to
   dignity.' [1439]

   Thus far as regards man. But in reference to the Messiah there is not a
   hint of any temptation or assault by Satan. It is of such importance to
   mark this clearly at the outset of this wonderful history, that proof
   must be offered even at this stage. In whatever manner negative critics
   may seek to account for the introduction of Christ's Temptation at the
   commencement of His Ministry, it cannot have been derived from Jewish
   legend. The mythical' interpretation of the Gospel-narratives breaks
   down in this almost more manifestly than in any other instance. [1440]
   So far from any idea obtaining that Satan was to assault the Messiah,
   in a well-known passage, which has been previously quoted, [1441] the
   Arch-enemy is represented as overwhelmed and falling on his face at
   sight of Him, and owning his complete defeat. [1442] On another point
   in this history we find the same inversion of thought current in Jewish
   legend. In the Commentary just referred to, [1443] the placing of
   Messiah on the pinnacle of the Temple, so far from being of Satanic
   temptation, is said to mark the hour of deliverance, of Messianic
   proclamation, and of Gentile voluntary submission. Our Rabbis give this
   tradition: In the hour when King Messiah cometh, He standeth upon the
   roof of the Sanctuary, and proclaims to Israel, saying, Ye poor
   (suffering), the time of your redemption draweth nigh. And if ye
   believe, rejoice in My Light, which is risen upon you . . . . . Is. lx.
   1. . . . . upon you only . . . . Is. lx. 2. . . . . In that hour will
   the Holy One, blessed be His Name, make the Light of the Messiah and of
   Israel to shine forth; and all shall come to the Light of the King
   Messiah and of Israel, as it is written ..... Is. lx. 3. . . . . And
   they shall come and lick the dust from under the feet of the King
   Messiah, as it is written, Is. xlix. 23. . . . . . And all shall come
   and fall on their faces before Messiah and before Israel, and say, We
   will be servants to Him and to Israel. And every one in Israel shall
   have 2,800 servants, [1444] as it is written, Zech. viii. 23.' One more
   quotation from the same Commentary: [1445] In that hour, the Holy One,
   blessed be His Name, exalts the Messiah to the heaven of heavens, and
   spreads over Him of the splendour of His glory because of the nations
   of the world, because of the wicked Persians. They say to Him, Ephraim,
   Messiah, our Righteousness, execute judgment upon them, and do to them
   what Thy soul desireth.'

   In another respect these quotations are important. They show that such
   ideas were, indeed, present to the Jewish mind, but in a sense opposite
   to the Gospel-narratives. In other words, they were regarded as the
   rightful manifestation of Messiah's dignity; whereas in the Evangelic
   record they are presented as the suggestions of Satan, and the
   Temptation of Christ. Thus the Messiah of Judaism is the Anti-Christ of
   the Gospels. But if the narrative cannot be traced to Rabbinic legend,
   may it not be an adaptation of an Old Testament narrative, such as the
   account of the forty days' fast of Moses on the mount, or of Elijah in
   the wilderness? Viewing the Old Testament in its unity, and the Messiah
   as the apex in the column of its history, we admit - or rather, we must
   expect - throughout points of correspondence between Moses, Elijah, and
   the Messiah. In fact, these may be described as marking the three
   stages in the history of the Covenant. Moses was its giver, Elijah its
   restorer, the Messiah its renewer and perfecter. And as such they all
   had, in a sense, a similar outward consecration for their work. But
   that neither Moses nor Elijah was assailed by the Devil, constitutes
   not the only, though a vital, difference between the fast of Moses and
   Elijah, and that of Jesus. Moses fasted in the middle, Elijah at the
   Presence of God; [1446] Elijah alone; Jesus assaulted by the Devil.
   Moses had been called up by God; Elijah had gone forth in the
   bitterness of his own spirit; Jesus was driven by the Spirit. Moses
   failed after his forty days' fast, when in indignation he cast the
   Tables of the Law from him; Elijah failed before his forty days' fast;
   Jesus was assailed for forty days and endured the trial. Moses was
   angry against Israel; Elijah despaired of Israel; Jesus overcame for
   Israel.

   Nor must we forget that to each the trial came not only in his human,
   but in his representative capacity - as giver, restorer, or perfecter
   of the Covenant. When Moses and Elijah failed, it was not only as
   individuals, but as giving or restoring the Covenant. And when Jesus
   conquered, it was not only as the Unfallen and Perfect Man, but as the
   Messiah. His Temptation and Victory have therefore a twofold aspect:
   the general human and the Messianic, and these two are closely
   connected. Hence we draw also this happy inference: in whatever Jesus
   overcame, we can overcome. Each victory which He has gained secures its
   fruits for us who are His disciples (and this alike objectively and
   subjectively). We walk in His foot-prints; we can ascend by the
   rock-hewn steps which His Agony has cut. He is the perfect man; and as
   each temptation marks a human assault (assault on humanity), so it also
   marks a human victory (of humanity). But He is also the Messiah; and
   alike the assault and the victory were of the Messiah. Thus, each
   victory of humanity becomes a victory for humanity; and so is
   fulfilled, in this respect also, that ancient hymn of royal victory,
   Thou hast ascended on high; Thou hast led captivity captive; Thou hast
   received gifts for men; yea, for the rebellious also, that Jehovah God,
   might dwell among them.' [1447] [1448]

   But even so, there are other considerations necessarily preliminary to
   the study of one of the most important parts in the life of Christ.
   They concern these two questions, so closely connected that they can
   scarcely be kept quite apart: Is the Evangelic narrative to be regarded
   as the account of a real and outward event? And if so, how was it
   possible - or, in what sense can it be asserted - that Jesus Christ,
   set before us as the Son of God, was tempted of the Devil?' All
   subsidiary questions run up into these two.

   As regards the reality and outwardness of the temptation of Jesus,
   several suggestions may be set aside as unnatural, and ex post facto
   attempts to remove a felt difficulty. Renan's frivolous conceit
   scarcely deserves serious notice, that Jesus went into the wilderness
   in order to imitate the Baptist and others, since such solitude was at
   the time regarded as a necessary preparation for great things. We
   equally dismiss as more reverent, but not better grounded, such
   suggestions as that an interview there with the deputies of the
   Sanhedrin, or with a Priest, or with a Pharisee, formed the historical
   basis of the Satanic Temptation; or that it was a vision, a dream, the
   reflection of the ideas of the time; or that it was a parabolic form in
   which Jesus afterwards presented to His disciples His conception of the
   Kingdom, and how they were to preach it. [1449] Of all such
   explanations it may be said, that the narrative does not warrant them,
   and that they would probably never have been suggested, if their
   authors had been able simply to accept the Evangelic history. But if so
   it would have been both better and wiser wholly to reject (as some have
   done) the authenticity of this, as of the whole early history of the
   Life of Christ, rather than transform what, if true, is so unspeakably
   grand into a series of modern platitudes. And yet (as Keim has felt) it
   seems impossible to deny, that such a transaction at the beginning of
   Christ's Messianic Ministry is not only credible, but almost a
   necessity; and that such a transaction must have assumed the form of a
   contest with Satan. Besides, throughout the Gospels there is not only
   allusion to this first great conflict (so that it does not belong only
   to the early history of Christ's Life), but constant reference to the
   power of Satan in the world, as a kingdom opposed to that of God, and
   of which the Devil is the King. [1450] And the reality of such a
   kingdom of evil no earnest mind would call in question, nor would it
   pronounce à priori against the personality of its king. Reasoning à
   priori, its credibility rests on the same kind of, only, perhaps, on
   more generally patent, evidence as that of the beneficent Author of all
   Good, so that - with reverence be it said - we have, apart from Holy
   Scripture, and, as regards one branch of the argument, as much evidence
   for believing in a personal Satan, as in a Personal God. Holding,
   therefore, by the reality of this transaction, and finding it equally
   impossible to trace it to Jewish legend, or to explain it by the coarse
   hypothesis of misunderstanding, exaggeration, and the like, this one
   question arises: Might it not have been a purely inward transaction, -
   or does the narrative present an account of what was objectively real?

   At the outset, it is only truthful to state, that the distinction does
   not seem of quite so vital importance as it has appeared to some, who
   have used in regard to it the strongest language. [1451] On the other
   hand it must be admitted that the narrative, if naturally interpreted,
   suggests an outward and real event, not an inward transaction; [1452]
   that there is no other instance of ecstatic state or of vision recorded
   in the life of Jesus, and that (as Bishop Ellicott has shown), [1453]
   the special expressions used are all in accordance with the natural
   view. To this we add, that some of the objections raised - notably that
   of the impossiblity of showing from one spot all the kingdoms of the
   world - cannot bear close investigation. For no rational interpretation
   would insist on the absolute literality of this statement, any more
   than on that of the survey of the whole extent of the land of Israel by
   Moses from Pisgah. [1454] [1455] All the requirements of the narrative
   would be met by supposing Jesus to have been placed on a very high
   mountain, whence south, the land of Judæa and far-off Edom; east, the
   swelling plains towards Euphrates; north, snow-capped Lebanon; and
   west, the cities of Herod, the coast of the Gentiles, and beyond, the
   wide sea dotted with sails, gave far-off prospect of the kingdoms of
   this world. To His piercing gaze all their grandeur would seem to
   unroll, and pass before Him like a moving scene, in which the sparkle
   of beauty and wealth dazzled the eye, the sheen of arms glittered in
   the far distance, the tramp of armed men, the hum of busy cities, and
   the sound of many voices fell on the ear like the far-off rush of the
   sea, while the restful harmony of thought, or the music of art, held
   and bewitched the senses - and all seemed to pour forth its fullness in
   tribute of homage at His feet in Whom all is perfect, and to Whom all
   belongs.

   But in saying this we have already indicated that, in such
   circumstances, the boundary-line between the outward and the inward
   must have been both narrow and faint. Indeed, with Christ it can
   scarcely be conceived to have existed at such a moment. The past, the
   present, and the future must have been open before Him like a map
   unrolling. Shall we venture to say that such a vision was only inward,
   and not outwardly and objectively real? In truth we are using terms
   which have no application to Christ. If we may venture once more to
   speak in this wise of the Divine Being: With Him what we view as the
   opposite poles of subjective and objective are absolutely one. To go a
   step further: many even of our temptations are only (contrastedly)
   inward, for these two reasons, that they have their basis or else their
   point of contact within us, and that from the limitations of our bodily
   condition we do uot see the enemy, nor can take active part in the
   scene around. But in both respects it was not so with the Christ. If
   this be so, the whole question seems almost irrelevant, and the
   distinction of outward and inward inapplicable to the present case. Or
   rather, we must keep by these two landmarks: First, it was not inward
   in the sense of being merely subjective; but it was all real - a real
   assualt by a real Satan, really under these three forms, and it
   constituted a real Temptation to Christ. Secondly, it was not merely
   outward in the sense of being only a present assault by Satan; but it
   must have reached beyond the outward into the inward, and have had for
   its further object that of influencing the future Work of Christ, as it
   stood out before His Mind.

   A still more difficult and solemn question is this: In what respect
   could Jesus Christ, the Perfect Sinless Man, the Son of God, have been
   tempted of the Devil? That He was so tempted is of the very essence of
   this narrative, confirmed throughout His after-life, and laid down as a
   fundamental principle in the teaching and faith of the Church. [1456]
   On the other hand, temptation without the inward correspondence of
   existent sin is not only unthinkable, so far as man is concerned,
   [1457] but temptation without the possibility of sin seems unreal - a
   kind of Docetism. [1458] Yet the very passage of Holy Scripture in
   which Christ's equality with us as regards all temptation is expressed,
   also emphatically excepts from it this one particular sin, [1459] not
   only in the sense that Christ actually did not sin, nor merely in this,
   that our concupiscence' [1460] had no part in His temptations, but
   emphatically in this also, that the notion of sin has to be wholly
   excluded from our thoughts of Christ's temptations. [1461]

   To obtain, if we can, a clearer understanding of this subject, two
   points must be kept in view. Christ's was real, though unfallen Human
   Nature; and Christ's Human was in inseparable union with His Divine
   Nature. We are not attempting to explain these mysteries, nor at
   present to vindicate them; we are only arguing from the standpoint of
   the Gospels and of Apostolic teaching, which proceeds on these
   premisses - and proceeding on them, we are trying to understand the
   Temptation of Christ. Now it is clear, that human nature, that of Adam
   before his fall, was created both sinless and peccable. If Christ's
   Human Nature was not like ours, but, morally, like that of Adam before
   his fall, then must it likewise have been both sinless and in itself
   peccable. We say, in itself, for there is a great difference between
   the statement that human nature, as Adam and Christ had it, was capable
   of sinning, and this other, that Christ was peccable. From the latter
   the Christian mind instinctively recoils, even as it is metaphysically
   impossible to imagine the Son of God peccable. Jesus voluntarily took
   upon Himself human nature with all its infirmities and weaknesses - but
   without the moral taint of the Fall: without sin. It was human nature,
   in itself capable of sinning, but not having sinned. If He was
   absolutely sinless, He must have been unfallen. The position of the
   first Adam was that of being capable of not sinning, not that of being
   incapable of sinning. The Second Adam also had a nature capable of not
   sinning, but not incapable of sinning. This explains the possibility of
   temptation' or assault upon Him, just as Adam could be tempted before
   there was in him any inward consensus to it. [1462] The first Adam
   would have been perfected' - or passed from the capability of not
   sinning to the incapability of sinning - by obedience. That obedience'
   - or absolute submission to the Will of God - was the grand outstanding
   characteristic of Christ's work; but it was so, because He was not only
   the Unsinning, Unfallen Man, but also the Son of God. Because God was
   His Father, therefore He must be about His Business, which was to do
   the Will of His Father. With a peccable Human Nature He was impeccable;
   not because He obeyed, but being impeccable He so obeyed, because His
   Human was inseparably connected with His Divine Nature. To keep this
   Union of the two Natures out of view would be Nestorianism. [1463] To
   sum up: The Second Adam, morally unfallen, though voluntarily subject
   to all the conditions of our Nature, was, with a peccable Human Nature,
   absolutely impeccable as being also the Son of God - a peccable Nature,
   yet an impeccable Person: the God-Man, tempted in regard to all
   (things) in like manner (as we), without (excepting) sin.'

   All this sounds, after all, like the stammering of Divine words by a
   babe, and yet it may in some measure help us to understand the
   character of Christ's first great Temptation.


   Before proceeding, a few sentences are required in explanation of
   seeming differences in the Evangelic narration of the event. The
   historical part of St. John's Gospel begins after the Temptation - that
   is, with the actual Ministry of Christ; since it was not within the
   purport of that work to detail the earlier history. That had been
   sufficiently done in the Synoptic Gospels. Impartial and serious
   critics will admit that these are in accord. For, if St. Mark only
   summarises, in his own brief manner, he supplies the two-fold notice
   that Jesus was driven' into the wilderness, and was with the wild
   beasts,' which is in fullest internal agreement with the detailed
   narratives of St. Matthew and St. Luke. The only noteworthy difference
   between these two is, that St. Matthew places the Temple-temptation
   before that of the world-kingdom, while St. Luke inverts this order,
   probably because his narrative was primarily intended for Gentile
   readers, to whose mind this might present itself as to them the true
   gradation of temptation. To St. Matthew we owe the notice, that after
   Temptation Angels came and ministered' unto Jesus; to St. Luke, that
   the Tempter only departed from Him for a season.'

   To restate in order our former conclusions, Jesus had deliberately, of
   His own accord and of set firm purpose, gone to be baptized. That one
   grand outstanding fact of His early life, that He must be about His
   Father's Business, had found its explanation when He knew that the
   Baptist's cry, the Kingdom of Heaven is at hand,' was from God. His
   Father's Business, then, was the Kingdom of Heaven,' and to it He
   consecrated Himself, so fulfilling all righteousness. But His being
   about it' was quite other than that of any Israelite, however devout,
   who came to Jordan. It was His consecration, not only to the Kingdom,
   but to the Kingship, in the anointing and permanent possession of the
   Holy Ghost, and in His proclamation from heaven. That Kingdom was His
   Father's Business; its Kingship, the manner in which He was to be about
   it.' The next step was not, like the first, voluntary, and of
   preconceived purpose. Jesus went to Jordan; He was driven of the Spirit
   into the wilderness. Not, indeed, in the sense of His being unwilling
   to go, [1464] or having had other purpose, such as that of immediate
   return into Galilee, but in that of not being willing, of having no
   will or purpose in the matter, but being led up,' unconscious of its
   purpose, with irresistible force, by the Spirit. In that wilderness He
   had to test what He had learned, and to learn what He had tested. So
   would He have full proof for His Work of the What - His Call and
   Kingship; so would He see its How - the manner of it; so, also, would,
   from the outset, the final issue of His Work appear.

   Again - banishing from our minds all thought of sin in connection with
   Christ's Temptation, [1465] He is presented to us as the Second Adam,
   both as regarded Himself, and His relation to man. In these two
   respects, which, indeed, are one, He is now to be tried. Like the
   first, the Second Adam, sinless, is to be tempted, but under the
   existing conditions of the Fall: in the wilderness, not in Eden; not in
   the enjoyment of all good, but in the pressing want of all that is
   necessary for the sustenance of life, and in the felt weakness
   consequent upon it. For (unlike the first) the Second Adam was, in His
   Temptation, to be placed on an absolute equality with us, except as
   regarded sin. Yet even so, there must have been some point of inward
   connection to make the outward assault a temptation. It is here that
   opponents (such as Strauss and Keim) have strangely missed the mark,
   when objecting, either that the forty days' fast was intrinsically
   unnecessary, or that the assaults of Satan were clumsy suggestions,
   incapable of being temptations to Jesus. He is driven' into the
   wilderness by the Spirit to be tempted. [1466] The history of humanity
   is taken up anew at the point where first the kingdom of Satan was
   founded, only under new conditions. It is not now a choice, but a
   contest, for Satan is the prince of this world. During the whole forty
   days of Christ's stay in the wilderness His Temptation continued,
   though it only attained its high point at the last, when, after the
   long fast, He felt the weariness and weakness of hunger. As fasting
   occupies but a very subordinate, we might almost say a tolerated, place
   in the teaching of Jesus; and as, so far as we know, He exercised on no
   other occasion such ascetic practices, we are left to infer internal,
   as well as external, necessity for it in the present instance. The
   former is easily understood in His pre-occupation; the latter must have
   had for its object to reduce Him to utmost outward weakness, by the
   depression of all the vital powers. We regard it as a psychological
   fact that, under such circumstances, of all mental faculties the memory
   alone is active, indeed, almost preternaturally active. During the
   preceding thirty-nine days the plan, or rather the future, of the Work
   to which He had been consecrated, must have been always before Him. In
   this respect, then, He must have been tempted. It is wholly impossible
   that He hesitated for a moment as to the means by which He was to
   establish the Kingdom of God. He could not have felt tempted to adopt
   carnal means, opposed to the nature of that Kingdom, and to the Will of
   God. The unchangeable convictions which He had already attained must
   have stood out before Him: that His Father's business was the Kingdom
   of God; that He was furnished to it, not by outward weapons, but by the
   abiding Presence of the Spirit; above all, that absolute submission to
   the Will of God was the way to it, nay, itself the Kingdom of God. It
   will be observed, that it was on these very points that the final
   attack of the Enemy was directed in the utmost weakness of Jesus. But,
   on the other hand, the Tempter could not have failed to assault Him
   with considerations which He must have felt to be true. How could He
   hope, alone, and with such principles, to stand against Israel? He knew
   their views and feelings; and as, day by day, the sense of utter
   loneliness and forsakenness increasingly gathered around Him, in His
   increasing faintness and weakness, the seeming hopelessness of such a
   task as He had undertaken must have grown upon Him with almost
   overwhelming power. [1467] Alternately, the temptation to despair,
   presumption, or the cutting short of the contest in some decisive
   manner, must have presented itself to His mind, or rather have been
   presented to it by the Tempter.

   And this was, indeed, the essence of His last three great temptations;
   which, as the whole contest, resolved themselves into the one question
   of absolute submission to the Will of God, [1468] which is the sum and
   substance of all obedience. If He submitted to it, it must be
   suffering, and only suffering - helpless, hopeless suffering to the
   bitter end; to the extinction of life, in the agonies of the Cross, as
   a male-factor; denounced, betrayed, rejected by His people; alone, in
   very God-forsakenness. And when thus beaten about by temptation, His
   powers reduced to the lowest ebb of faintness, all the more vividly
   would memory hold out the facts so well known, so keenly realised at
   that moment, in the almost utter cessation of every other mental
   faculty: [1469] the scene lately enacted by the banks of Jordan, and
   the two great expectations of His own people, that the Messiah was to
   head Israel from the Sanctuary of the Temple, and that all kingdoms of
   the world were to become subject to Him. Here, then, is the inward
   basis of the Temptation of Christ, in which the fast was not
   unnecessary, nor yet the special assaults of the Enemy either clumsy
   suggestions,' or unworthy of Jesus.

   He is weary with the contest, faint with hunger, alone in that
   wilderness. His voice falls on no sympathising ear; no voice reaches
   Him but that of the Tempter. There is nothing bracing, strengthening in
   this featureless, barren, stony wilderness - only the picture of
   desolateness, hopelessness, despair. He must, He will absolutely submit
   to the Will of God. But can this be the Will of God? One word of power,
   and the scene would be changed. Let Him despair of all men, of
   everything - He can do it. By His Will the Son of God, as the Tempter
   suggests - not, however, calling thereby in question His Sonship, but
   rather proceeding on its admitted reality [1470] - can change the
   stones into bread. He can do miracles - put an end to present want and
   question, and, as visibly the possessor of absolute miraculous power,
   the goal is reached! But this would really have been to change the idea
   of Old Testament miracle into the heathen conception of magic, which
   was absolute power inherent in an individual, without moral purpose.
   The moral purpose - the grand moral purpose in all that was of God -
   was absolute submission to the Will of God. His Spirit had driven Him
   into that wilderness. His circumstances were God-appointed; and where
   He so appoints them, He will support us in them, even as, in the
   failure of bread, He supported Israel by the manna. [1471] [1472] And
   Jesus absolutely submitted to that Will of God by continuing in His
   present circumstances. To have set himself free from what they implied,
   would have been despair of God, and rebellion. He does more than not
   succmb: He conquers. The Scriptural reference to a better life upon the
   Word of God marks more than the end of the contest; it marks the
   conquest of Satan. He emerges on the other side triumphant, with this
   expression of His assured conviction of the sufficiency of God.

   It cannot be despair - and He cannot take up His Kingdom alone, in the
   exercise of mere power! Absolutely submitting to the Will of God, He
   must, and He can, absolutely trust Him. But if so, then let Him really
   trust Himself upon God, and make experiment, nay more, public
   demonstration - of it. If it be not despair of God, let it be
   presumption! He will not do the work alone! Then God-upborne, according
   to His promise, let the Son of God suddenly, from that height, descend
   and head His people, and that not in any profane manner, but in the
   midst of the Sanctuary, where God was specially near, in sight of
   incensing priests and worshipping people. So also will the goal at once
   be reached.

   The Spirit of God had driven Jesus into the wilderness; the spirit of
   the Devil now carried Him to Jerusalem. Jesus stands on the lofty
   pinnacle of the Tower, or of the Temple-porch, [1473] presumably that
   on which every day a Priest was stationed to watch, as the pale morning
   light passed over the hills of Judæa far off to Hebron, to announce it
   as the signal for offering the morning sacrifice. [1474] If we might
   indulge our imagination, the moment chosen would be just as the Priest
   had quitted that station. The first desert-temptation had been in the
   grey of breaking light, when to the faint and weary looker the stones
   of the wilderness seemed to take fantastic shapes, like the bread for
   which the faint body hungered. In the next temptation Jesus stands on
   the watch-post which the white-robed priest had just quitted. Fast the
   rosy morning-light, deepening into crimson, and edged with gold, is
   spreading over the land. In the Priests' Court below Him the
   morning-sacrifice has been offered. The massive Temple-gates are slowly
   opening, and the blasts of the priests' silver trumpets is summoning
   Israel to begin a new day by appearing before their Lord. Now then let
   Him descend, Heaven-borne, into the midst of priests and people. What
   shouts of acclamation would greet His appearance! What homage of
   worship would be His! The goal can at once be reached, and that at the
   head of believing Israel. Jesus is surveying the scene. By His side is
   the Tempter, watching the features that mark the working of the spirit
   within. And now he has whispered it. Jesus had overcome in the first
   temptation by simple, absolute trust. This was the time, and this the
   place to act upon this trust, even as the very Scriptures to which
   Jesus had appealed warranted. But so to have done would have been not
   trust - far less the heroism of faith - but presumption. The goal might
   indeed have been reached; but not the Divine goal, nor in God's way -
   and, as so often, Scripture itself explained and guarded the Divine
   promise by a preceding Divine command. [1475] And thus once more Jesus
   not only is not overcome, but He overcomes by absolute submission to
   the Will of God.

   To submit to the Will of God! But is not this to acknowledge His
   authority, and the order and disposition which He has made of all
   things? Once more the scene changes. They have turned their back upon
   Jerusalem and the Temple. Behind are also all popular prejudices,
   narrow nationalism, and limitations. They no longer breathe the stifled
   air, thick with the perfume of incense. They have taken their flight
   into God's wide world. There they stand on the top of some very high
   mountain. It is in the full blaze of sunlight that He now gazes upon a
   wondrous scene. Before Him rise, from out the cloud-land at the edge of
   the horizon, forms, figures, scenes -- come words, sounds, harmonies.
   The world in all its glory, beauty, strength, majesty, is unveiled. Its
   work, its might, its greatness, its art, its thought, emerge into clear
   view. And still the horizon seems to widen as He gazes; and more and
   more, and beyond it still more and still brighter appears. It is a
   world quite other than that which the retiring Son of the retired
   Nazareth-home had ever seen, could ever have imagined, that opens its
   enlarging wonders. To us in the circumstances the temptation, which at
   first sight seems, so to speak, the clumsiest, would have been well
   nigh irresistible. In measure as our intellect was enlarged, our heart
   attuned to this world-melody, we would have gazed with bewitched
   wonderment on that sight, surrendered ourselves to the harmony of those
   sounds, and quenched the thirst of our soul with maddening draught. But
   passively sublime as it must have appeared to the Perfect Man, the
   God-Man - and to Him far more than to us from His infinitely deeper
   appreciation of, and wider sympathy with the good, and true, and the
   beautiful - He had already overcome. It was, indeed, not worship,' but
   homage which the Evil One claimed from Jesus, and that on the truly
   stated and apparently rational ground, that, in its present state, all
   this world was delivered' unto him, and he exercised the power of
   giving it to whom he would. But in this very fact lay the answer to the
   suggestion. High above this moving scene of glory and beauty arched the
   deep blue of God's heaven, and brighter than the sun, which poured its
   light over the sheen and dazzle beneath, stood out the fact: I must be
   about My Father's business;' above the din of far-off sounds rose the
   voice: Thy Kingdom come!' Was not all this the Devil's to have and to
   give, because it was not the Father's Kingdom, to which Jesus had
   consecrated Himself? What Satan sought was, My kingdom come' - a
   Satanic Messianic time, a Satanic Messiah; the final realisation of an
   empire of which his present possession was only temporary, caused by
   the alienation of man from God. To destroy all this: to destroy the
   works of the Devil, to abolish his kingdom, to set man free from his
   dominion, was the very object of Christ's Mission. On the ruins of the
   past shall the new arise, in proportions of grandeur and beauty
   hitherto unseen, only gazed at afar by prophets' rapt sight. It is to
   become the Kingdom of God; and Christ's consecration to it is to be the
   corner-stone of its new Temple. Those scenes are to be transformed into
   one of higher worship; those sounds to mingle and melt into a melody of
   praise. An endless train, unnumbered multitudes from afar, are to bring
   their gifts, to pour their wealth, to consecrate their wisdom, to
   dedicate their beauty, to lay it all in lowly worship as humble
   offering at His feet: a world God-restored, God-dedicated, in which
   dwells God's peace, over which rests God's glory. It is to be the
   bringing of worship, not the crowning of rebellion, which is the
   Kingdom. And so Satan's greatest becomes to Christ his coarsest
   temptation, [1476] which He casts from Him; and the words: Thou shalt
   worship the Lord thy God, and Him only shalt thou serve,' which now
   receive their highest fulfilment, mark not only Satan's defeat and
   Christ's triumph, but the principle of His Kingdom - of all victory and
   all triumph.

   Foiled, defeated, the Enemy has spread his dark pinions towards that
   far-off world of his, and covered it with their shadow. The sun no
   longer glows with melting heat; the mists have gathered or the edge of
   the horizon, and enwrapped the scene which has faded from view. And in
   the cool and shade that followed have the Angels [1477] come and
   ministered to His wants, both bodily and mental. He has refused to
   assert power; He has not yielded to despair; He would not fight and
   conquer alone in His own strength; and He has received power and
   refreshment, and Heaven's company unnumbered in their ministry of
   worship. He would not yield to Jewish dream; He did not pass from
   despair to presumption; and lo, after the contest, with no reward as
   its object, all is His. He would not have Satan's vassals as His
   legions, and all Heaven's hosts are at His command. It had been
   victory; it is now shout of triumphant praise. He Whom God had anointed
   by His Spirit had conquered by the Spirit; He Whom Heaven's Voice had
   proclaimed God's beloved Son, in Whom He was well pleased, had proved
   such, and done His good pleasure.

   They had been all overcome, these three temptations against submission
   to the Will of God, present, personal, and specifically Messianic. Yet
   all His life long there were echoes of them: of the first, in the
   suggestion of His brethren to show Himself; [1478] of the second, in
   the popular attempt to make Him a king, and perhaps also in what
   constituted the final idea of Judas Iscariot; of the third, as being
   most plainly Santanic, in the question of Pilate: Art Thou then a
   King?'

   The enemy departed from Him' - yet only for a season.' But this first
   contest and victory of Jesus decided all others to the last. These
   were, perhaps not as to the shaping of His Messianic plan, nor through
   memory of Jewish expectancy, yet still in substance the same contest
   about absolute obedience, absolute submission to the Will of God, which
   constitutes the Kingdom of God. And so also from first to last was this
   the victory: Not My will, but Thine, be done.' But as, in the first
   three petitions which He has taught us, Christ has enfolded us in the
   mantle of His royalty, so has He Who shared our nature and our
   temptations gone up with us, want-pressed, sin-laden, and
   temptation-stricken as we are, to the Mount of Temptation in the four
   human petitions which follow the first. And over us is spread, as the
   sheltering folds of His mantle, this as the outcome of His royal
   contest and glorious victory, For Thine is the Kingdom, and the power,
   and the glory, for ever and ever!' [1479]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [1437] No other terms would correctly describe the book of Keim to
   which I specially refer. How widely it differs, not only from the
   superficial trivialities of a Renan, but from the stale arguments of
   Strauss, or the picturesque inaccuracies of a Hausrath, no serious
   student need be told. Perhaps on that ground it is only the more
   dangerous.

   [1438] On the temptations of Abraham see Book of Jubilees, ch. xvii.;
   Sanh. 89 b (and differently but not less blasphemously in Pirké de R.
   Elies. 31); Pirké de R. Elies. 26, 31, 32 (where also about Satan's
   temptation of Sarah, who dies in consequence of his tidings); Ab. de R.
   N. 33; Ber. R. 32, 56; Yalkut, i. c. 98, p. 28 b; and Tanchuma, where
   the story is related with most repulsive details. As to Moses, see for
   example Shabb. 89 a; and especially the truly horrible story of the
   death of Moses in Debar R. 11 (ed. Warsh. iii. p. 22 a and b). But I am
   not aware of any temptation of Moses by Satan.

   [1439] Bemidb. R. 15, ed. Warsh. vol. iv. p. 63 a, lines 5 and 4 from
   bottom.

   [1440] Thus Gfrörer can only hope that some Jewish parallelism may yet
   be discovered (!); while Keim suggests, of course without a title of
   evidence, additions by the early Jewish Christians. But whence and why
   these imaginary additions?

   [1441] Yalkut on Is. ix. 1, vol. ii. p. 56.

   [1442] Keim (Jesu von Naz. i. b, p. 564) seems not to have perused the
   whole passage, and, quoting it at second-hand, has misapplied it. The
   passage (Yalkut on Is. lx. 1) has been given before.

   [1443] u. s. col. d.

   [1444] The number is thus reached: as there are seventy nations, and
   ten of each are to take hold on each of the four corners of a Jew's
   garment, we have 70 x 10 x 4 =2,800.

   [1445] u. s. 11 lines further down.

   [1446] The Rabbis have it, that a man must accommodate himself to the
   ways of the place where he is. When Moses was on the Mount he lived of
   the bread of the Torah' (Shem. R. 47).

   [1447] Ps. lxviii. 18.

   [1448] The quotation in Eph. iv. 8 resembles the rendering of the
   Targum (see Delitzsch Comm. ü. d. Psalter, vol. i. p. 503).

   [1449] We refrain from naming the individual writers who have broached
   these and other equally untenable hypotheses.

   [1450] The former notably in St. Matt. xii. 25-28; St. Luke xi. 17 &c.
   The import of this, as looking back upon the history of the Temptation,
   has not always been sufficiently recognised. In regard to Satan and his
   power many passages will occur to the reader, such as St. Matt. vi. 13;
   xii. 22; xiii. 19, 25, 39; xxvi. 41; St. Luke x. 18; xxii. 3, 28, 31;
   St. John viii. 44; xii. 31; xiii. 27; xiv. 30; xvi. 11.

   [1451] So Bishop Ellicott, Histor. Lectures, p. 111.

   [1452] Professor Godet's views on this subject are very far from
   satisfactory, whether exegetically or dogmatically. Happily, they fall
   far short of the notion of any internal solicitation to sin in the case
   of Jesus, which Bishop Ellicott so justly denounces in strongest
   language.

   [1453] U. s. p. 110, note 2.

   [1454] Deut. xxxiv. 1-3.

   [1455] According to Siphré (ed. Friedmann p. 149 a and b), God showed
   to Moses Israel in its happiness, wars, and misfortunes; the whole
   world from the Day of Creation to that of the Resurrection; Paradise,
   and Gehenna.

   [1456] Heb. iv. 15.

   [1457] St. James i. 14.

   [1458] The heresy which represents the Body of Christ as only apparent,
   not real.

   [1459] Hebr. iv. 15.

   [1460] St. James i. 14.

   [1461] Comp. Riehm, Lehrbegr. d. Hebr. Br. P. 364.  But I cannot agree
   with the views which this learned theologian expresses. Indeed, it
   seems to me that he does not meet the real difficulties of the
   question; on the contrary, rather aggravates them.  They lie in this:
   How could One Who (according to Riehm) stood on the same level with us
   in regard to all temptations have been exempt from sin?

   [1462] The latter was already sin. Yet temptation' means more than mere
   assault.' There may be conditional mental assensus without moral
   consensus - and so temptation without sin. See p. 301, note.

   [1463] The heresy which unduly separated the two Natures.

   [1464] This is evident even from the terms used by St. Matthew (nchthe)
   and St. Luke (geto). I cannot agree with Godet, that Jesus would have
   been inclined to return to Galilee and begin teaching. Jesus had no
   inclination save this - to do the Will of His Father. And yet the
   expression driven' used by St. Mark seems to imply some human shrinking
   on His part - at least at the outset.

   [1465] Heb. iv. 15.

   [1466] The place of the Temptation could not, of course, have been the
   traditional Quarantania,' but must have been near Bethabara. See also
   Stanley's Sinai and Palestine, p. 308.

   [1467] It was this which would make the assault' a temptation' by
   vividly setting before the mind the reality and rationality of these
   considerations - a mental assensus - without implying any inward
   consensus to the manner in which the Enemy proposed to have them set
   aside.

   [1468] All the assaults of Satan were really directed against Christ's
   absolute submission to the Will of God, which was His Perfectness.
   Hence, by every one of these temptations, as Weiss says in regard to
   the first, rüttelt er an Seiner Volkommenheit.'

   [1469] I regard the memory as affording the basis for the Temptation.
   What was so vividly in Christ's memory at that moment, that was flashed
   before Him as in a mirror under the dazzling light of temptation.

   [1470] Satan's if' was rather a taunt than a doubt. Nor could it have
   been intended to call in question His ability to do miracles. Doubt on
   that point would already have been a fall.

   [1471] Deut. viii 3.

   [1472] The supply of the manna was only an exemplification and
   application of the general principle, that man really lives by the Word
   of God.

   [1473] It cannot be regarded as certain, that the ptergion to ero was,
   as commentators generally suppose, the Tower at the southeastern angle
   of the Temple Cloisters, where the Royal (southern) and Solomon's (the
   eastern) Porch met, and whence the view into the Kedron Valley beneath
   was to the stupendous depth of 450 feet. Would this angle be called a
   wing' (ptergion)? Nor can I agree with Delitzsch, that it was the roof'
   of the Sanctuary, where indeed there would scarcely have been
   standing-room. It certainly formed the watch-post of the Priest.
   Possibly it may have been the extreme corner of the wing-like' porch,
   or ulam, which led into the Sanctuary. Thence a Priest could easily
   have communicated with his brethren in the court beneath. To this there
   is, however, the objection that in that case it should have been to
   nao. At p. 244, the ordinary view of this locality has been taken.

   [1474] Comp. The Temple, its Ministry and Services,' p. 132.

   [1475] Bengel: Scriptura per Scripturam interpretanda et concilianda.'
   This is also a Rabbinic canon. The Rabbis frequently insist on the duty
   of not exposing oneself to danger, in presumptuous expectation of
   miraculous deliverance. It is a curious saying: Do not stand over
   against an ox when he comes from the fodder; Satan jumps out from
   between his horns. (Pes. 112 b.) David had been presumptuous in Ps.
   xxvi. 2 - and failed. (Sanh. 107 a.) But the most apt illustration is
   this: On one occasion the child of a Rabbi was asked by R. Jochanan to
   quote a verse. The child quoted Deut. xiv. 22, at the same time
   propounding the question, why the second clause virtually repeated the
   first. The Rabbi replied, To teach us that the giving of tithes maketh
   rich.' How do you know it?' asked the child. By experience,' answered
   the Rabbi. But,' said the child, such experiment is not lawful, since
   we are not to tempt the Lord our God.' (See the very curious book of
   Rabbi So oweyczgk, Die Bibel, d. Talm. u. d. Evang. p. 132.).

   [1476] Sin always intensifies in the coarseness of its assaults.

   [1477] For the Jewish views on Angelology and Demonology, see Appendix
   XIII.: Jewish Angelology and Demonology.'

   [1478] St. John vii. 3-5.

   [1479] This quotation of the Doxology leaves, of course, the critical
   question undetermined, whether the words were part of the Lord's
   Prayer' in its original form.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER II.
THE DEPUTATION FROM JERUSALEM - THE THREE SECTS OF THE PHARISEES, SADDUCEES, AND
ESSENES - EXAMINATION OF THEIR DISTINCTIVE DOCTRINES. [1480]

   (St. John i. 19-24.)

   APART from the repulsively carnal form which it had taken, there is
   something absolutely sublime in the continuance and intensity of the
   Jewish expectation of the Messiah. It outlived not only the delay of
   long centuries, but the persecutions and scattering of the people; it
   continued under the disappointment of the Maccabees, the rule of a
   Herod, the administration of a corrupt and contemptible Priesthood,
   and, finally, the government of Rome as represented by a Pilate; nay,
   it grew in intensity almost in proportion as it seemed unlikely of
   realisation. These are facts which show that the doctrine of the
   Kingdom, as the sum and substance of Old Testament teaching, was the
   very heart of Jewish religious life; while, at the same time, they
   evidence a moral elevation which placed abstract religious conviction
   far beyond the reach of passing events, and clung to it with a tenacity
   which nothing could loosen.

   Tidings of what these many months had occurred by the banks of the
   Jordan must have early reached Jerusalem, and ultimately stirred to the
   depths its religious society, whatever its preoccupation with ritual
   questions or political matters. For it was not an ordinary movement,
   nor in connection with any of the existing parties, religious or
   political. An extraordinary preacher, of extraordinary appearance and
   habits, not aiming, like others, after renewed zeal in legal
   observances, or increased Levitical purity, but preaching repentance
   and moral renovation in preparation for the coming Kingdom, and sealing
   this novel doctrine with an equally novel rite, had drawn from town and
   country multitudes of all classes - inquirers, penitents and novices.
   The great and burning question seemed, what the real character and
   meaning of it was? or rather, whence did it issue, and whither did it
   tend? The religious leaders of the people proposed to answer this by
   instituting an inquiry through a trust-worthy deputation. In the
   account of this by St. John certain points seem clearly implied; [1481]
   on others only suggestions can be ventured.

   That the interview referred to occurred after the Baptism of Jesus,
   appears from the whole context. [1482] Similarly, the statement that
   the deputation which came to John was sent from Jerusalem' by the
   Jews,' implies that it proceeded from authority, even if it did not
   bear more than a semi-official character. For, although the expression
   Jews' in the fourth Gospel generally conveys the idea of contrast to
   the disciples of Christ (for ex. St. John vii. 15), yet it refers to
   the people in their corporate capacity, that is, as represented by
   their constituted religious authorities. [1483] On the other hand,
   although the term scribes and elders' does not occur in the Gospel of
   St. John, [1484] it by no means follows that the Priests and Levites'
   sent from the capital either represented the two great divisions of the
   Sanhedrin, or, indeed, that the deputation issued from the Great
   Sanhedrin itself. The former suggestion is entirely ungrounded; the
   latter at least problematic. It seems a legitimate inference that,
   considering their own tendencies, and the political dangers connected
   with such a step, the Sanhedrin of Jerusalem would not have come to the
   formal resolution of sending a regular deputation on such an inquiry.
   Moreover, a measure like this would have been entirely outside their
   recognised mode of procedure. The Sanhedrin did not, and could not,
   originate charges. It only investigated those brought before it. It is
   quite true that judgment upon false prophets and religious seducers lay
   with it; [1485] but the Baptist had not as yet said or done anything to
   lay him open to such an accusation. He had in no way infringed the Law
   by word or deed, nor had he even claimed to be a prophet. [1486] If,
   nevertheless, it seems most probable that the Priests and Levites' came
   from the Sanhedrin, we are led to the conclusion that theirs was an
   informal mission, rather privately arranged than publicly determined
   upon.

   And with this the character of the deputies agrees. Priests and
   Levites' - the colleagues of John the Priest - would be selected for
   such an errand, rather than leading Rabbinic authorities. The presence
   of the latter would, indeed, have given to the movement an importance,
   if not a sanction, which the Sanhedrin could not have wished. The only
   other authority in Jerusalem from which such a deputation could have
   issued was the so-called Council of the Temple,' Judicature of the
   Priests,' or Elders of the Priesthood,' [1487] which consisted of the
   fourteen chief officers of the Temple. But although they may afterwards
   have taken their full part in the condemnation of Jesus, ordinarily
   their duty was only connected with the services of the Sanctuary, and
   not with criminal questions or doctrinal investigations. [1488] It
   would be too much to suppose, that they would take the initiative in
   such a matter on the ground that the Baptist was a member of the
   Priesthood. Finally, it seems quite natural that such an informal
   inquiry, set on foot most probably by the Sanhedrists, should have been
   entrusted exclusively to the Pharisaic party. It would in no way have
   interested the Sadducees; and what members of that party had seen of
   John [1489] must have convinced them that his views and aims lay
   entirely beyond their horizon.

   The origin of the two great parties of Pharisees and Sadducees has
   already been traced. [1490] They mark, not sects, but mental
   directions, such as in their principles are natural and universal, and,
   indeed, appear in connection with all metaphysical [1491] questions.
   They are the different modes in which the human mind views
   supersensuous problems, and which afterwards, when one-sidedly followed
   out, harden into diverging schools of thought. If Pharisees and
   Sadducess were not sects' in the sense of separation from the unity of
   the Jewish ecclesiastical community, neither were theirs heresies' in
   the conventional, but only in the original sense of tendency,
   direction, or, at most, views, differing from those commonly
   entertained. [1492] Our sources of information here are: the New
   Testament, Josephus, and Rabbinic writings. The New Testament only
   marks, in broad outlines and popularly, the peculiarities of each
   party; but from the absence of bias it may safely be regarded [1493] as
   the most trustworthy authority on the matter. The inferences which we
   derive from the statements of Josephus, [1494] though always to be
   qualified by our general estimate of his animus, [1495] accord with
   those from the New Testament. In regard to Rabbinic writings, we have
   to bear in mind the admittedly unhistorical character of most of their
   notices, the strong party-bias which coloured almost all their
   statements regarding opponents, and their constant tendency to trace
   later views and practices to earlier times.

   Without entering on the principles and supposed practices of the
   fraternity' or association' (Chebher, Chabhurah, Chabhurta) of
   Pharisees, which was comparatively small, numbering only about 6,000
   members, [1496] the following particulars may be of interest. The
   object of the association was twofold: to observe in the strictest
   manner, and according to traditional law, all the ordinances concerning
   Levitical purity, and to be extremely punctilious in all connected with
   religious dues (tithes and all other dues). A person might undertake
   only the second, without the first of these obligations. In that case
   he was simply a Neeman, an accredited one' with whom one might enter
   freely into commerce, as he was supposed to have paid all dues. But a
   person could not undertake the vow of Levitical purity without also
   taking the obligation of all religious dues. If he undertook both vows
   he was a Chabher, or associate. Here there were four degrees, marking
   an ascending scale of Levitical purity, or separation from all that was
   profane. [1497] In opposition to these was the Am ha-arets, or country
   people' (the people which knew not, or cared not for the Law, and were
   regarded as cursed'). But it must not be thought that every Chabher was
   either a learned Scribe, or that every Scribe was a Chabher. On the
   contrary, as a man might be a Chabher without being either a Scribe or
   an elder, [1498] so there must have been sages, and even teachers, who
   did not belong to the association, since special rules are laid down
   for the reception of such. [1499] Candidates had to be formally
   admitted into the fraternity' in the presence of three members. But
   every accredited public teacher' was, unless anything was known to the
   contrary, supposed to have taken upon him the obligations referred to.
   [1500] The family of a Chabher belonged, as a matter of course, to the
   community; [1501] but this ordinance was afterwards altered. [1502] The
   Neeman undertook these four obligations: to tithe what he ate, what he
   sold, and what he bought, and not to be a guest with an Am ha-arets.
   [1503] The full Chabher undertook not to sell to an Am ha-arets' any
   fluid or dry substance (nutriment or fruit), not to buy from him any
   such fluid, not to be a guest with him, not to entertain him as a guest
   in his own clothes (on account of their possible impurity) - to which
   one authority adds other particulars, which, however, were not
   recognised by the Rabbis generally as of primary importance. [1504]

   These two great obligations of the official' Pharisee, or Associate'
   are pointedly referred to by Christ - both that in regard to tithing
   (the vow of the Neeman); [1505] and that in regard to Levitical purity
   (the special vow of the Chabher). [1506] In both cases they are
   associated with a want of corresponding inward reality, and with
   hypocrisy. These charges cannot have come upon the people by surprise,
   and they may account for the circumstance that so many of the learned
   kept aloof from the Association' as such. Indeed, the sayings of some
   of the Rabbis in regard to Pharisaism and the professional Pharisee are
   more withering than any in the New Testament. It is not necessary here
   to repeat the well-known description, both in the Jerusalem and the
   Babylon Talmud, of the seven kinds of Pharisees,' of whom six (the
   Shechemite,' the stumbling,' the bleeding,' the mortar,' the I want to
   know what is incumbent on me,' and the Pharisee from fear') mark
   various kinds of unreality, and only one is the Pharisee from love.'
   [1507] Such an expression as the plague of Pharisaism' is not uncommon;
   and a silly pietist, a clever sinner, and a female Pharisee, are ranked
   among the troubles of life.' [1508] Shall we then explain a verse
   according to the opinions of the Pharisees?' asks a Rabbi, in supreme
   contempt for the arrogance of the fraternity. [1509] It is as a
   tradition among the pharisees [1510] to torment themselves in this
   world, and yet they will gain nothing by it in the next.' The Sadducees
   had some reason for the taunt, that the Pharisees would by-and-by
   subject the globe of the sun itself to their purifications,' [1511] the
   more so that their assertions of purity were sometimes conjoined with
   Epicurean maxims, betokening a very different state of mind, such as,
   Make haste to eat and drink, for the world which we quit resembles a
   wedding feast;' or this: My son, if thou possess anything, enjoy
   thyself, for there is no pleasure in Hades, [1512] and death grants no
   respite. But if thou sayest, What then would I leave to my sons and
   daughters? Who will thank thee for this appointment in Hades?' Maxims
   these to which, alas! too many of their recorded stories and deeds form
   a painful commentary. [1513]

   But it would be grossly unjust to identify Pharisaism, as a religious
   direction, with such embodiments of it or even with the official
   fraternity.' While it may be granted that the tendency and logical
   sequence of their views and practices were such, their system, as
   opposed to Sadduceeism, had very serious bearings: dogmatic, ritual,
   and legal. It is, however, erroneous to suppose, either that their
   system represented traditionalism itself, or that Scribes and Pharisees
   are convertible terms, [1514] while the Sadducees represented the civil
   and political element. The Pharisees represented only the prevailing
   system of, not traditionalism itself; while the Sadducees also numbered
   among them many learned men. They were able to enter into controversy,
   often protracted and fierce, with their opponents, and they acted as
   members of the Sanhedrin, although they had diverging traditions of
   their own, and even, as it would appear, at one time a complete code of
   canon-law. [1515] [1516] Moreover, the admitted fact, that when in
   office the Sadducees conformed to the principles and practices of the
   Pharisees, proves at least that they must have been acquainted with the
   ordinances of traditionalism. [1517] Lastly, there were certain
   traditional ordinances on which both parties were at one. [1518] Thus
   it seems Sadduceeism was in a sense rather a speculative than a
   practical system, starting from simple and well-defined principles, but
   wide-reaching in its possible consequences. Perhaps it may best be
   described as a general reaction against the extremes of Pharisaism,
   springing from moderate and rationalistic tendencies; intended to
   secure a footing within the recognised bounds of Judaism; and seeking
   to defend its principles by a strict literalism of interpretation and
   application. If so, these interpretations would be intended rather for
   defensive than offensive purposes, and the great aim of the party would
   be after rational freedom - or, it might be, free rationality.
   Practically, the party would, of course, tend in broad, and often
   grossly unorthodox, directions.

   The fundamental dogmatic differences between the Pharisees and
   Sadducees concerned: the rule of faith and practice; the after death;'
   the existence of angels and spirits; and free will and pre-destination.
   In regard to the first of these points, it has already been stated that
   the Sadducees did not lay down the principle of absolute rejection of
   all traditions as such, but that they were opposed to traditionalism as
   represented and carried out by the Pharisees. When put down by sheer
   weight of authority, they would probably carry the controversy further,
   and retort on their opponents by an appeal to Scripture as against
   their traditions, perhaps ultimately even by an attack on
   traditionalism; but always as represented by the Pharisees. [1519] A
   careful examination of the statements of Josephus on this subject will
   show that they convey no more than this. [1520] The Pharisaic view of
   this aspect of the controversy appears, perhaps, most satisfactorily
   because indirectly, in certain sayings of the Mishnah, which attribute
   all national calamities to those persons, whom they adjudge to eternal
   perdition, who interpret Scripture not as does the Halakhah,' or
   established Pharisaic rule. [1521] In this respect, then, the commonly
   received idea concerning the Pharisees and Sadducees will require to be
   seriously modified. As regards the practice of the Pharisees, as
   distinguished from that of the Sadducees, we may safely treat the
   statements of Josephus as the exaggerated representations of a
   partisan, who wishes to place his party in the best light. It is,
   indeed, true that the Pharisees, interpreting the legal ordinances with
   rigour,' [1522] [1523] imposed on themselves the necessity of much
   self-denial, especially in regard to food, [1524] but that their
   practice was under the guidance of reason, as Josephus asserts, is one
   of those bold mis-statements with which he has too often to be
   credited. His vindication of their special reverence for age and
   authority [1525] must refer to the honours paid by the party to the
   Elders,' not to the old. And that there was sufficient ground for
   Sadducean opposition to Pharisaic traditionalism, alike in principle
   and in practice, will appear from the following quotation, to which we
   add, by way of explanation, that the wearing of phylacteries was deemed
   by that party of Scriptural obligation, and that the phylactery for the
   head was to consist (according to tradition) of four compartments.
   Against the words of the Scribes is more punishable than against the
   words of Scripture. He who says, No phylacteries, so as to transgress
   the words of Scripture, is not guilty (free); five compartments - to
   add to the words of the Scribes - he is guilty.' [1526] [1527]

   The second doctrinal difference between Pharisees and Sadducees
   concerned the after death.' According to the New Testament, [1528] the
   Sadducees denied the resurrection of the dead, while Josephus, going
   further, imputes to them denial of reward or punishment after death,
   [1529] and even the doctrine that the soul perishes with the body.
   [1530] The latter statement may be dismissed as among those inferences
   which theological controversialists are too fond of imputing to their
   opponents. This is fully borne out by the account of a later work,
   [1531] to the effect, that by successive misunderstandings of the
   saying of Antigonus of Socho, that men were to serve God without regard
   to reward, his later pupils had arrived at the inference that there was
   no other world - which, however, might only refer to the Pharisaic
   ideal of the world to come,' not to the denial of the immortality of
   the soul - and no resurrection of the dead. We may therefore credit
   Josephus with merely reporting the common inference of his party. But
   it is otherwise in regard to their denial of the resurrection of the
   dead. Not only Josephus, but the New Testament and Rabbinic writings
   attest this. The Mishnah expressly states [1532] that the formula from
   age to age,' or rather from world to world,' had been introduced as a
   protest against the opposite theory; while the Talmud, which records
   disputations between Gamaliel and the Sadducees [1533] on the subject
   of the resurrection, expressly imputes the denial of this doctrine to
   the Scribes of the Sadducees.' In fairness it is perhaps only right to
   add that, in the discussion, the Sadducees seem only to have actually
   denied that there was proof for this doctrine in the Pentateuch, and
   that they ultimately professed themselves convinced by the reasoning of
   Gamaliel. [1534] Still the concurrent testimony of the New Testament
   and of Josephus leaves no doubt, that in this instance their views had
   not been misrepresented. Whether or not their opposition to the
   doctrine of the Resurrection arose in the first instance from, or was
   prompted by, Rationalistic views, which they endeavoured to support by
   an appeal to the letter of the Pentateuch, as the source of
   traditionalism, it deserves notice that in His controversy with the
   Sadducees Christ appealed to the Pentateuch in proof of His teaching.
   [1535]

               Connected with this was the equally Rationalistic
   opposition to belief in Angels and Spirits. It is only mentioned in the
   New Testament, [1536] but seems almost to follow as a corollary.
   Remembering what the Jewish Angelology was, one can scarcely wonder
   that in controversy the Sadducees should have been led to the opposite
   extreme.

   The last dogmatic difference between the two sects' concerned that
   problem which has at all times engaged religious thinkers: man's free
   will and God's pre-ordination, or rather their compatibility. Josephus
   - or the reviser whom he employed - indeed, uses the purely heathen
   expression fate' (emarmne) [1537] to designate the Jewish idea of the
   pre-ordination of God. But, properly understood, the real difference
   between the Pharisees and Sadducees seems to have amounted to this:
   that the former accentuated God's preordination, the latter man's free
   will; and that, while the Pharisees admitted only a partial influence
   of the human element on what happened, or the co-operation of the human
   with the Divine, the Sadducees denied all absolute pre-ordination, and
   made man's choice of evil or good, with its consequences of misery or
   happiness, to depend entirely on the exercise of free will and
   self-determination. And in this, like many opponents of
   Predestinarianism,' they seem to have started from the principle, that
   it was impossible for God either to commit or to foresee [in the sense
   of fore-ordaining] anything evil.' The mutual misunderstanding here was
   that common in all such controversies. Although [1538] Josephus writes
   as if, according to the Pharisees, the chief part in every good action
   depended upon fate [pre-ordination] rather than on man's doing, yet in
   another place [1539] he disclaims for them the notion that the will of
   man was destitute of spontaneous activity, and speaks somewhat
   confusedly - for he is by no means a good reasoner - of a mixture' of
   the Divine and human elements, in which the human will, with its
   sequence of virtue or wickedness, is subject to the will of fate. A yet
   further modification of this statement occurs in another place, [1540]
   where we are told that, according to the Pharisees, some things
   depended upon fate, and more on man himself. Manifestly, there is not a
   very wide difference between this and the fundamental principle of the
   Sadducees in what we may suppose its primitive form.

   But something more will have to be said as illustrative of Pharisaic
   teaching on this subject. No one who has entered into the spirit of the
   Old Testament can doubt that its outcome was faith, in its twofold
   aspect of acknowledgment of the absolute Rule, and simple submission to
   the Will, of God. What distinguished this so widely from fatalism was
   what may be termed Jehovahism - that is, the moral element in its
   thoughts of God, and that He was ever presented as in paternal
   relationship to men. But the Pharisees carried their accentuation of
   the Divine to the verge of fatalism. Even the idea that God had created
   man with two impulses, the one to good, the other to evil; and that the
   latter was absolutely necessary for the continuance of this world,
   would in some measure trace the causation of moral evil to the Divine
   Being. The absolute and unalterable pre-ordination of every event, to
   its minutest details, is frequently insisted upon. Adam had been shown
   all the generations that were to spring from him. Every incident in the
   history of Israel had been foreordained, and the actors in it - for
   good or for evil - were only instruments for carrying out the Divine
   Will. What were ever Moses and Aaron? God would have delivered Israel
   out of Egypt, and given them the Law, had there been no such persons.
   Similarly was it in regard to Solomon, to Esther, to Nebuchadnezzar,
   and others. Nay, it was because man was predestined to die that the
   serpent came to seduce our first parents. And as regarded the history
   of each individual: all that concerned his mental and physical
   capacity, or that would betide him, was prearranged. His name, place,
   position, circumstances, the very name of her whom he was to wed, were
   proclaimed in heaven, just as the hour of his death was foreordered.
   There might be seven years of pestilence in the land, and yet no one
   died before his time. [1541] Even if a man inflicted a cut on his
   finger, he might be sure that this also had been preordered. [1542]
   Nay, wheresoever a man was destined to die, thither would his feet
   carry him.' [1543] We can well understand how the Sadducees would
   oppose notions like these, and all such coarse expressions of fatalism.
   And it is significant of the exaggeration of Josephus, [1544] that
   neither the New Testament, nor Rabbinic writings, bring the charge of
   the denial of God's prevision against the Sadducees.

   But there is another aspect of this question also. While the Pharisees
   thus held the doctrine of absolute preordination, side by side with it
   they were anxious to insist on man's freedom of choice, his personal
   responsibility, and moral obligation. [1545] Although every event
   depended upon God, whether a man served God or not was entirely in his
   own choice. As a logical sequence of this, fate had no influence as
   regarded Israel, since all depended on prayer, repentance, and good
   works. Indeed, otherwise that repentance, on which Rabbinism so largely
   insists, would have had no meaning. Moreover, it seems as if it had
   been intended to convey that, while our evil actions were entirely our
   own choice, if a man sought to amend his ways, he would be helped of
   God. [1546] It was, indeed, true that God had created the evil impulse
   in us; but He had also given the remedy in the Law. [1547] This is
   parabolically represented under the figure of a man seated at the
   parting of two ways, who warned all passers that if they chose one road
   it would lead them among the thorns, while on the other brief
   difficulties would end in a plain path (joy). [1548] Or, to put it in
   the language of the great Akiba: [1549] Everything is foreseen; free
   determination is accorded to man; and the world is judged in goodness.'
   With this simple juxtaphysition of two propositions equally true, but
   incapable of metaphysical combination, as are most things in which the
   empirically cognisable and uncognisable are joined together, we are
   content to leave the matter.

   The other differences between the Pharisees and Sadducees can be easily
   and briefly summed up. They concern ceremonial, ritual, and juridical
   questions. In regard to the first, the opposition of the Sadducees to
   the excessive scruples of the Pharisees on the subject of Levitical
   defilements led to frequent controversy. Four points in dispute are
   mentioned, of which, however, three read more like ironical comments
   than serious divergences. Thus, the Sadducees taunted their opponents
   with their many lustrations, including that of the Golden Candlestick
   in the Temple. [1550] Two other similar instances are mentioned. [1551]
   By way of guarding against the possibility of profanation, the
   Pharisees enacted, that the touch of any thing sacred defiled' the
   hands. The Sadducees, on the other hand, ridiculed the idea that the
   Holy Scriptures defiled' the hands, but not such a book as Homer.
   [1552] In the same spirit, the Sadducees would ask the Pharisees how it
   came, that water pouring from a clean into an unclean vessel did not
   lose its purity and purifying power. [1553] If these represent no
   serious controversies, on another ceremonial question there was real
   difference, though its existence shows how far party-spirit could lead
   the Pharisees. No ceremony was surrounded with greater care to prevent
   defilement than that of preparing the ashes of the Red Heifer. [1554]
   What seem the original ordinances, [1555] directed that, for seven days
   previous to the burning of the Red Heifer, the priest was to be kept in
   separation in the Temple, sprinkled with the ashes of all
   sin-offerings, and kept from the touch of his brother-priests, with
   even greater rigour than the High-Priest in his preparation for the Day
   of Atonement. The Sadducees insisted that, as till sundown' was the
   rule in all purification, the priest must be in cleanliness till then,
   before burning the Red Heifer. But, apparently for the sake of
   opposition, and in contravention to their own principles, the Pharisees
   would actually defile' the priest on his way to the place of burning,
   and then immediately make him take a bath of purification which had
   been prepared, so as to show that the Sadducees were in error. [1556]
   [1557] In the same spirit, the Sadducees seem to have prohibited the
   use of anything made from animals which were either interdicted as
   food, or by reason of their not having been properly slaughtered; while
   the Pharisees allowed it, and, in the case of Levitically clean animals
   which had died or been torn, even made their skin into parchment, which
   might be used for sacred purposes. [1558]

   These may seem trifling distinctions, but they sufficed to kindle the
   passions. Even greater importance attached to differences on ritual
   questions, although the controversy here was purely theoretical. For,
   the Sadducees, when in office, always conformed to the prevailing
   Pharisaic practices. Thus the Sadducees would have interpreted Lev.
   xxiii. 11, 15, 16, as meaning that the wave-sheaf (or, rather, the
   Omer) was to be offered on the morrow after the weekly Sabbath' - that
   is, on the Sunday in Easter week - which would have brought the Feast
   of Pentacost always on a Sunday; [1559] while the Pharisees understood
   the term Sabbath' of the festive Paschal day. [1560] [1561] Connected
   with this were disputes about the examination of the witnesses who
   testified to the appearance of the new moon, and whom the Pharisees
   accused of having been suborned by their opponents. [1562]

   The Sadducean objection to pouring the water of libation upon the altar
   on the Feast of Tabernacles, led to riot and bloody reprisals on the
   only occasion on which it seems to have been carried into practice.
   [1563] [1564] Similarly, the Sadducees objected to the beating off the
   willow-branches after the procession round the altar on the last day of
   the Feast of Tabernacles, if it were a Sabbath. [1565] Again, the
   Sadducees would have had the High-Priest, on the Day of Atonement,
   kindle the incense before entering the Most Holy Place; the Pharisees
   after he had entered the Sanctuary. [1566] Lastly, the Pharisees
   contended that the cost of the daily Sacrifices should be discharged
   from the general Temple treasury, while the Sadducees would have paid
   it from free-will offerings. Other differences, which seem not so well
   established, need not here be discussed.

   Among the divergences on juridical questions, reference has already
   been made to that in regard to marriage with the betrothed,' or else
   actually espoused widow of a deceased, childless brother. Josephus,
   indeed, charges the Sadducees with extreme severity in criminal
   matters; [1567] but this must refer to the fact that the ingenuity or
   punctiliousness of the Pharisees would afford to most offenders a
   loophole of escape. On the other hand, such of the diverging juridical
   principles of the Sadducees, as are attested on trustworthy authority,
   [1568] seem more in accordance with justice than those of the
   Pharisees. They concerned (besides the Levirate marriage) chiefly three
   points. According to the Sadducees, the punishment [1569] againstfalse
   witnesses was only to be executed if the innocent person, condemned on
   their testimony, had actually suffered punishment, while the Pharisees
   held that this was to be done if the sentence had been actually
   pronounced, although not carried out. [1570] Again, according to Jewish
   law, only a son, but not a daughter, inherited the father's property.
   From this the Pharisees argued, that if, at the time of his father's
   decease, that son were dead, leaving only a daughter, this
   granddaughter would (as representative of the son) be the heir, while
   the daughter would be excluded. On the other hand, the Sadducees held
   that, in such a case, daughter and granddaughter should share alike.
   [1571] Lastly, the Sadducees argued that if, according to Exodus xxi.
   28,29, a man was responsible for damage done by his cattle, he was
   equally, if not more, responsible for damage done by his slave, while
   the Pharisees refused to recognise any responsibility on the latter
   score. [1572] [1573]

   For the sake of completeness it has been necessary to enter into
   details, which may not posses a general interest. This, however, will
   be marked, that, with the exception of dogmatic differences, the
   controversy turned on questions of canon-law.' Josephus tells us that
   the Pharisees commanded the masses, [1574] and especially the female
   world, [1575] while the Sadducees attached to their ranks only a
   minority, and that belonging to the highest class. The leading priests
   in Jerusalem formed, of course, part of that highest class of society;
   and from the New Testament and Josephus we learn that the High-Priestly
   families belonged to the Sadducean party. [1576] But to conclude from
   this, [1577] either that the Sadducees represented the civil and
   political aspect of society, and the Pharisees the religious; or, that
   the Sadducees were the priest-party, [1578] in opposition to the
   popular and democratic Pharisees, are inferences not only unsupported,
   but opposed to historical facts. For, not a few of the Pharisaic
   leaders were actually priests, [1579] while the Pharisaic ordinances
   make more than ample recognition of the privileges and rights of the
   Priesthood. This would certainly not have been the case if, as some
   have maintained, Sadducean and priest-party had been convertible terms.
   Even as regards the deputation to the Baptist of Priests and Levites'
   from Jerusalem, we are expressely told that they were of the
   Pharisees.' [1580]

   This bold hypothesis seems, indeed, to have been invented chiefly for
   the sake of another, still more unhistorical. The derivation of the
   name Sadducee' has always been in dispite. According to a Jewish legend
   of about the seventh century of our era, [1581] the name was derived
   from one Tsadoq (Zadok), [1582] a disciple of Antigonus of Socho, whose
   principle of not serving God for reward had been gradually
   misinterpreted into Sadduceeism. But, apart from the objection that in
   such case the party should rather have taken the name of Antigonites,
   the story itself receives no support either from Josephus or from early
   Jewish writings. Accordingly modern critics have adopted another
   hypothesis, which seems at least equally untenable. On the supposition
   that the Sadducees were the priest-party,' the name of the sect is
   derived from Zadok (Tsadoq), the High-Priest in the time of Solomon.
   [1583] But the objections to this are insuperable. Not to speak of the
   linguistic difficulty of deriving Tsadduqim (Zaddukim, Sadducees) from
   Tsadoq (Zadok), [1584] neither Josephus nor the Rabbis know anything of
   such a connection between Tsadoq and the Sadducees, of which, indeed,
   the rationale would be difficult to perceive. Besides, is it likely
   that a party would have gone back so many centuries for a name, which
   had no connection with their distinctive principles? The name of a
   party is, if self-chosen (which is rarely the case), derived from its
   founder or place of origin, or else from what it claims as distinctive
   principles or practices. Opponents might either pervert such a name, or
   else give a designation, generally opprobrious, which would express
   their own relation to the party, or to some of its supposed
   peculiarities. But on none of these principles can the origin of the
   name of Sadducees from Tsadoq be accounted for. Lastly, on the
   supposition mentioned, the Sadducees must have given the name to their
   party, since it cannot be imagined that the Pharisees would have
   connected their opponents with the honoured name of the High-Priest
   Tsadoq.

   If it is highly improbable that the Sadducees, who, of course,
   professed to be the right interpreters of Scripture, would choose any
   party-name, thereby stamping themselves as sectaries, this derivation
   of their name is also contrary to historical analogy. For even the name
   Pharisees, Perushim,' separated ones,' was not taken by the party
   itself, but given to it by their opponents. [1585] [1586] From 1 Macc.
   ii. 42; vii. 13; 2 Macc. xiv. 6, it appears that originally they had
   taken the sacred name of Chasidim, or the pious.' [1587] This, no
   doubt, on the ground that they were truly those who, according to the
   directions of Ezra, [1588] had separated themselves (become nibhdalim)
   from the filthiness of the heathen' (all heathen defilement) by
   carrying out the traditional ordinances. [1589] In fact, Ezra marked
   the beginning of the later,' in contradistinction to the earlier,' or
   Scripture-Chasidim. [1590] If we are correct in supposing that their
   opponents had called them Perushim, instead of the Scriptural
   designation of Nibhdalim, the inference is at hand, that, while the
   Pharisees' would arrogate to themselves the Scriptural name of
   Chasidim, or the pious,' their opponents would retort that they were
   satisfied to be Tsaddiqim, [1591] or righteous.' Thus the name of
   Tsaddiqim would become that of the party opposing the Pharisees, that
   is, of the Sadducees. There is, indeed, an admitted linguistic
   difficulty in the change of the sound i into u (Tsaddiqim into
   Tsadduqim), but may it not have been that this was accomplished, not
   grammatically, but by popular witticism? Such mode of giving a by-name'
   to a party or government is, at least, not irrational, nor is it
   uncommon. [1592] Some wit might have suggested: Read not Tsaddiqim, the
   righteous,' but Tsadduqim (from Tsadu, {hebrew}), desolation,'
   destruction.' Whether or not this suggestion approve itself to critics,
   the derivation of Sadducees from Tsaddiqim is certainly that which
   offers most probability. [1593]

   This uncertainty as to the origin of the name of a party leads almost
   naturally to the mention of another, which, indeed, could not be
   omitted in any description of those times. But while the Pharisees and
   Sadducees were parties within the Synagogue, the Essenes (Esseno or
   'Essaoi - the latter always in Philo) were, although strict Jews, yet
   separatists, and, alike in doctrine, worship, and practice, outside the
   Jewish body ecclesiastic. Their numbers amounted to only about 4,000.
   [1594] They are not mentioned in the New Testament, and only very
   indirectly referred to in Rabbinic writings, perhaps without clear
   knowledge on the part of the Rabbis. If the conclusion concerning them,
   which we shall by-and-by indicate, be correct, we can scarcely wonder
   at this. Indeed, their entire separation from all who did not belong to
   their sect, the terrible oaths by which they bound themselves to
   secrecy about their doctrines, and which would prevent any free
   religious discussion, as well as the character of what is know of their
   views, would account for the scanty notices about them. Josephus and
   Philo, [1595] who speak of them in the most sympathetic manner, had, no
   doubt, taken special pains to ascertain all that could be learned. For
   this Josephus seems to have enjoyed special opportunities. [1596]
   Still, the secrecy of their doctrines renders us dependent on writers,
   of whom at least one (Josephus) lies open to the suspicion of colouring
   and exaggeration. But of one thing we may feel certain: neither John
   the Baptist, and his Baptism, nor the teaching of Christianity, had any
   connection with Essenism. It were utterly unhistorical to infer such
   from a few points of contact - and these only of similarity, not
   identity - when the differences between them are so fundamental. That
   an Essene would have preached repentance and the Kingdom of God to
   multitudes, baptized the uninitiated, and given supreme testimony to
   One like Jesus, are assertions only less extravagant than this, that
   One Who mingled with society as Jesus did, and Whose teaching, alike in
   that respect, and in all its tendencies, was so utterly Non-, and even
   Anti-Essenic, had derived any part of His doctrine from Essenism.
   Besides, when we remember the views of the Essenes on purification, and
   on Sabbath observance, and their denial of the Resurrection, we feel
   that, whatever points of resemblance critical ingenuity may emphasise,
   the teaching of Christianity was in a direction opposite from that of
   Essenism. [1597]

   We posses no data for the history of the origin and development (if
   such there was) of Essenism. We may admit a certain connection between
   Pharisaism and Essenism, though it has been greatly exaggerated by
   modern Jewish writers. Both directions originated from a desire after
   purity,' though there seems a fundamental difference between them,
   alike in the idea of what constituted purity, and in the means for
   attaining it. To the Pharisee it was Levitical and legal purity,
   secured by the hedge' of ordinances which they drew around themselves.
   To the Essene it was absolute purity in separation from the material,'
   which in itself was defiling. The Pharisee attained in this manner the
   distinctive merit of a saint; the Essene obtained a higher fellowship
   with the Divine, inward' purity, and not only freedom from the
   detracting, degrading influence of matter, but command over matter and
   nature. As the result of this higher fellowship with the Divine, the
   adept possessed the power of prediction; as the result of his freedom
   from, and command over matter, the power of miraculous cures. That
   their purifications, strictest Sabbath observance, and other practices,
   would form points of contact with Pharisaism, follows as a matter of
   course; and a little reflection will show, that such observances would
   naturally be adopted by the Essenes, since they were within the lines
   of Judaism, although separatists from its body ecclesiastic. On the
   other hand, their fundamental tendency was quite other than that of
   Pharisaism, and strongly tinged with Eastern (Parsee) elements. After
   this the inquiry as to the precise date of its origin, and whether
   Essenism was an offshoot from the original (ancient) Assideans or
   Chasidim, seems needless. Certain it is that we find its first mention
   about 150 b.c., [1598] and that we meet the first Essence in the reign
   of Aristobulus I. [1599]

   Before stating our conclusions as to its relation to Judaism and the
   meaning of the name, we shall put together what information may be
   derived of the sect from the writings of Josephus, Philo, and Pliny.
   [1600] Even its outward organisation and the mode of life must have
   made as deep, and, considering the habits and circumstances of the
   time, even deeper impression than does the strictest asceticism on the
   part of any modern monastic order, without the unnatural and repulsive
   characteristics of the latter. There were no vows of absolute silence,
   broken only by weird chaunt of prayer or memento mori;' no penances,
   nor self-chastisement. But the person who had entered the order' was as
   effectually separated from all outside as if he had lived in another
   world. Avoiding the large cities as the centres of immorality, [1601]
   they chose for their settlements chiefly villages, one of their largest
   colonies being by the shore of the Dead Sea. [1602] At the same time
   they had also houses' inmost, if not all the cities of Palestine,
   [1603] notably in Jerusalem, [1604] where, indeed, one of the gates was
   named after them. [1605] In these houses' they lived in common, [1606]
   under officials of their own. The affairs of the order' were
   administered by a tribunal of at least a hundred members, [1607] wore a
   common dress, engaged in common labor, united in common prayers,
   partook of common meals, and devoted themselves to works of charity,
   for which each had liberty to draw from the common treasury at his own
   discretion, except in the case of relatives. [1608] It scarcely needs
   mention that they extended fullest hospitality to strangers belonging
   to the order; in fact, a special official was appointed for this
   purpose in every city. [1609] Everything was of the simplest character,
   and intended to purify the soul by the greatest possible avoidance, not
   only of what was sinful, but of what was material. Rising at dawn, no
   profane word was spoken till they had offered their prayers. These were
   addressed towards, if not to, the rising sun - probably, as they would
   have explained it, as the emblem of the Divine Light, but implying
   invocation, if not adoration, of the sun. [1610] After that they were
   dismissed by their officers to common work. The morning meal was
   preceded by a lustration, or bath. Then they put on their festive'
   linen garments, and entered, purified, the common hall as their
   Sanctuary. For each meal was sacrificial, in fact, the only sacrifices
   which they acknowledged. The baker,' who was really their priest - and
   naturally so, since he prepared the sacrifice - set before each bread,
   and the cook a mess of vegetables. The meal began with prayer by the
   presiding priest, for those who presided at these sacrifices' were also
   priests,' although in neither case probably of Aaronic descent, but
   consecrated by themselves. [1611] The sacraficial meal was again
   concluded by prayer, when they put off their sacred dress, and returned
   to their labour. The evening meal was of exactly the same description,
   and partaken of with the same rites as that of the morning.

   Although the Essenes, who, with the exception of a small party among
   them, repudiated marriage, adopted children to train them in the
   principles of their sect, [1612] yet admission to the order was only
   granted to adults, and after a novitiate which lasted three years. On
   entering, the novice received the three symbols of purity: an axe, or
   rather a spade, with which to dig a pit, a foot deep, to cover up the
   excrements; an apron, to bind round the loins in bathing; and a white
   dress, which was always worn, the festive garment at meals being of
   linen. At the end of the first year the novice was admitted to the
   lustrations. He had now entered on the second grade, in which he
   remained for another year. After its lapse, he was advanced to the
   third grade, but still continued a novice, until, at the close of the
   third year of his probation, he was admitted to the fourth grade - that
   of full member, when, for the first time, he was admitted to the
   sacrifice of the common meals. The mere touch of one of a lower grade
   in the order defiled the Essene, and necessitated the lustration of a
   bath. Before admission to full membership, a terrible oath was taken.
   As, among other things, it bound to the most absolute secrecy, we can
   scarcely suppose that its form, as given by Josephus, [1613] contains
   much beyond what was generally allowed to transpire. Thus the long list
   given by the Jewish historian of moral obligations which the Essenes
   undertook, is probably only a rhetorical enlargement of some simple
   formula. More credit attaches to the alleged undertaking of avoidance
   of all vanity, falsehood, dishonesty, and unlawful gains. The last
   parts of the oath alone indicate the peculiar vows of the sect, that
   is, so far as they could be learned by the outside world, probably
   chiefly through the practice of the Essenes. They bound each member not
   to conceal anything from his own sect, nor, even on peril of death, to
   disclose their doctrines to others; to hand down their doctrines
   exactly as they had received them; to abstain from robbery; [1614] and
   to guard the books belonging to their sect, and the names of the
   Angels.

   It is evident that, while all else was intended as safeguards of a
   rigorous sect of purists, and with the view of strictly keeping it a
   secret order, the last-mentioned particulars furnish significant
   indications of their peculiar doctrines. Some of these may be regarded
   as only exaggerations of Judaism, though not of the Pharisaic kind.
   [1615] Among them we reckon the extravagant reverence for the name of
   their legislator (presumably Moses), whom to blaspheme was a capital
   offence; their rigid abstinence from all prohibited food; and their
   exaggerated Sabbath-observance, when, not only no food was prepared,
   but not a vessel moved, nay, not even nature eased. [1616] But this
   latter was connected with their fundamental idea of inherent impurity
   in the body, and, indeed, in all that is material. Hence, also, their
   asceticism, their repudiation of marriage, and their frequent
   lustrations in clean water, not only before their sacrificial meals,
   but upon contact even with an Essene of a lower grade, and after
   attending to the calls of nature. Their undoubted denial of the
   resurrection of the body seems only the logical sequence from it. If
   the soul was a substance of the subtlest ether, drawn by certain
   natural enticement into the body, which was its prison, a state of
   perfectness could not have consisted in the restoration of that which,
   being material, was in itself impure. And, indeed, what we have called
   the exaggerated Judaism of the sect- its rigid abstinence from all
   forbidden food, and peculiar Sabbath-observance - may all have had the
   same object, that of tending towards an external purism, which the
   Divine legislator would have introduced, but the carnally-minded' could
   not receive. Hence, also, the strict separation of the order, its
   grades, its rigorous discipline, as well as its abstinence from wine,
   meat, and all ointments - from every luxury, even from trades which
   would encourage this, or any vice. This aim after external purity
   explains many of their outward arrangements, such as that their labour
   was of the simplest kind, and the commonality of all property in the
   order; perhaps, also, what may seem more ethical ordinances, such as
   the repudiation of slavery, their refusal to take an oath, and even
   their scrupulous care of truth. The white garments, which they always
   wore, seem to have been but a symbol of that purity which they sought.
   For this purpose they submitted, not only to strict asceticism, but to
   a discipline which gave the officials authority to expel all offenders,
   even though in so doing they virtually condemned them to death by
   starvation, since the most terrible oaths had bound all entrants into
   the order not to partake of any food other than that prepared by their
   priests.'

   In such a system there would, of course, be no place for either an
   Aaronic priesthood, or bloody sacrifices. In fact, they repudiated
   both. Without formally rejecting the Temple and its services, there was
   no room in their system for such ordinances. They sent, indeed, thank
   offerings to the Temple, but what part had they in bloody sacrifices
   and an Aaronic ministry, which constituted the main business of the
   Temple? Their priests' were their bakers and presidents; their
   sacrifices those of fellowship, their sacred meals of purity. It is
   quite in accordance with this tendency when we learn from Philo that,
   in their diligent study of the Scriptures, they chiefly adopted the
   allegorical mode of interpretation. [1617]

   We can scarcely wonder that such Jews as Josephus and Philo, and such
   heathens as Pliny, were attracted by such an unworldly and lofty sect.
   Here were about 4,000 men, who deliberately separated themselves, not
   only from all that made life pleasant, but from all around; who, after
   passing a long and strict novitiate, were content to live under the
   most rigid rule, obedient to their superiors; who gave up all their
   possessions, as well as the earnings of their daily toil in the fields,
   or of their simple trades; who held all things for the common benefit,
   entertained strangers, nursed their sick, and tended their aged as if
   their own parents, and were charitable to all men; who renounced all
   animal passions, eschewed anger, ate and drank in strictest moderation,
   accumulated neither wealth nor possessions, wore the simplest white
   dress till it was no longer fit for use; repudiated slavery, oaths,
   marriage; abstained from meat and wine, even from the common Eastern
   anointing with oil; used mystic lustrations, had mystic rites and
   mystic prayers, an esoteric literature and doctrines; whose every meal
   was a sacrifice, and every act one of self-denial; who, besides, were
   strictly truthful, honest, upright, virtuous, chaste, and charitable,
   in short, whose life meant, positively and negatively, a continual
   purification of the soul by mortification of the body. To the
   astonished onlookers this mode of life was rendered even more sacred by
   doctrines, a literature, and magic power known only to the initiated.
   Their mysterious conditions made them cognisant of the names of Angels,
   by which we are, no doubt, to understand a theosophic knowledge,
   fellowship with the Angelic world, and the power of employing its
   ministry. Their constant purifications, and the study of their
   prophetic writings, gave them the power of prediction; [1618] the same
   mystic writings revealed the secret remedies of plants and stones for
   the healing of the body, [1619] as well as what was needed for the cure
   of souls.

   It deserves special notice that this intercourse with Angels, this
   secret traditional literature, and its teaching concerning mysterious
   remedies in plants and stones, are not unfrequently referred to in that
   Apocalyptic literature known as the Pseudepigraphic Writings.'
   Confining ourselves to undoubtedly Jewish and pre-Christian documents,
   [1620] we know what development the doctrine of Angels received both in
   the Book of Enoch (alike in its earlier and in its later portion [1621]
   ) and in the Book of Jubilees, [1622] and how the seers' received
   Angelic instruction and revelations. The distinctively Rabbinic
   teaching on these subjects is fully set forth in another part of this
   work. [1623] Here we would only specially notice that in the Book of
   Jubilees [1624] Angels are represented as teaching Noah all herbal
   remedies' for diseases, [1625] while in the later Pirqé de R. Eliezer
   [1626] this instruction is said to have been given to Moses. These two
   points (relaion to the Angels, and knowledge of the remedial power of
   plants - not to speak of visions and prophecies) seem to connect the
   secret writings of the Essenes with that outside' literature which in
   Rabbinic writings is known as Sepharim haChitsonim, outside writings.'
   [1627] The point is of greatest importance, as will presently appear.

   It needs no demonstration, that a system which proceeded from a
   contempt of the body and of all that is material; in some manner
   identified the Divine manifestation with the Sun; denied the
   Resurrection, the Temple-priesthood, and sacrifices; preached
   abstinence from meats and from marriage; decreed such entire separation
   from all around that their very contact defiled, and that its adherents
   would have perished of hunger rather than join in the meals of the
   outside world; which, moreover, contained not a trace of Messianic
   elements - indeed, had no room for them - could have had no internal
   connection with the origin of Christianity. Equally certain is it that,
   in respect of doctrine, life, and worship, it really stood outside
   Judaism, as represented by either Pharisees or Sadducees. The question
   whence the foreign elements were derived, which were its distinctive
   characteristics, has of late been so learnedly discussed, that only the
   conclusions arrived at require to be stated. Of the two theories, of
   which the one traces Essenism to Neo-Pythagorean, [1628] the other to
   Persian sources, [1629] the latter seems fully established - without,
   however, wholly denying at least the possibility of Neo-Pythagorean
   influences. To the grounds which have been so conclusively urged in
   support of the Eastern origin of Essenism, [1630] in its distinctive
   features, may be added this, that Jewish Angelology, which played so
   great a part in the system, was derived from Chaldee and Persian
   sources, and perhaps also the curious notion, that the knowledge of
   medicaments, originally derived by Noah from the angels, came to the
   Egyptians chiefly through the magic books of the Chaldees. [1631]
   [1632]

   It is only at the conclusion of these investigations that we are
   prepared to enter on the question of the origin and meaning of the name
   Essenes, important as this inquiry is, not only in itself, but in
   regard to the relation of the sect to orthodox Judaism. The eighteen or
   nineteen proposed explanations of a term, which must undoubtedly be of
   Hebrew etymology, all proceed on the idea of its derivation from
   something which implied praise of the sect, the two least objectionable
   explaining the name as equivalent either to the pious,' or else to the
   silent ones.' But against all such derivations there is the obvious
   objection, that the Pharisees, who had the moulding of the theological
   language, and who were in the habit of giving the hardest names to
   those who differed from them, would certainly not have bestowed a title
   implying encomium on a sect which, in principle and practices, stood so
   entirely outside, not only of their own views, but even of the
   Synagogue itself. Again, if they had given a name of encomium to the
   sect, it is only reasonable to suppose that they would not have kept,
   in regard to their doctrines and practices, a silence which is only
   broken by dim and indirect allusions. Yet, as we examine it, the origin
   and meaning of the name seem implied in their very position towards the
   Synagogue. They were the only real sect, strictly outsiders, and their
   name Essenes ('Esseno, 'Essaoi) seems the Greek equivalent for
   Chitsonim ({hebrew}), the outsiders.' Even the circumstance that the
   axe, or rather spade (xinrion), which every novice received, has for
   its Rabbinic equivalent the word Chatsina, is here not without
   significance. Linguistically, the words Essenoi and Chitsonim are
   equivalents, as admittedly are the similar designations Chasidim
   ({hebrew}) and Asidaioi ('Asidaoi). For, in rendering Hebrew into
   Greek, the ch ({hebrew}) is often entirely omitted, or represented by a
   spiritus lenis in the beginning,' while in regard to the vowels no
   distinct rule is to be laid down.' [1633] Instances of a change of the
   Hebrew i into the Greek e are frequent, and of the Hebrew o into the
   Greek _ not rare. As one instance will suffice, we select a case in
   which exactly the same transmutation of the two vowel-sounds occurs -
   that of the Rabbinic Abhginos ({hebrew}) for the Greek (egens) Eugen_s
   (well-born'). [1634]

   This derivation of the name Essenes, which strictly expresses the
   character and standing of the sect relatively to orthodox Judaism, and,
   indeed, is the Greek form of the Hebrew term for outsiders,' is also
   otherwise confirmed. It has already been said, that no direct statement
   concerning the Essenes occurs in Rabbinic writings. Nor need this
   surprise us, when we remember the general reluctance of the Rabbis to
   refer to their opponents, except in actual controversy; and, that, when
   traditionalism was reduced to writing, Essenism, as a Jewish sect, had
   ceased to exist. Some of its elements had passed into the Synagogue,
   influencing its general teaching (as in regard to Angelology, magic,
   &c.), and greatly contributing to that mystic direction which
   afterwards found expression in what is now known as the Kabbalah. But
   the general movement had passed beyond the bounds of Judaism, and
   appeared in some forms of the Gnostic heresy. But still there are
   Rabbinic references to the Chitsonim,' which seem to identify them with
   the sect of the Essenes. Thus, in one passage [1635] certain practices
   of the Sadducees and of the Chitsonim are mentioned together, and it is
   difficult to see who could be meant by the latter if not the Essenes.
   Besides, the practices there referred to seem to contain covert
   allusions to those of the Essenes. Thus, the Mishnah begins by
   prohibiting the public reading of the Law by those who would not appear
   in a coloured, but only in a white dress. Again, the curious statement
   is made that the manner of the Chitsonim was to cover the phylacteries
   with gold - a statement unexplained in the Gemara, and inexplicable,
   unless we see in it an allusion to the Essene practice of facing the
   rising Sun in their morning prayers. [1636] Again, we know with what
   bitterness Rabbinism denounced the use of the externe writings (the
   Sepharim haChitsonim) to the extent of excluding from eternal life
   those who studied them. [1637] But one of the best ascertained facts
   concerning the Essenes is that they possessed secret, outside,' holy
   writings of their own, which they guarded with special care. And,
   although it is not maintained that the Sepharim haChitsonim were
   exclusively Essene writings, [1638] the latter must have been included
   among them. We have already seen reason for believing, that even the
   so-called Pseudepigraphic literature, notably such works as the Book of
   Jubilees, was strongly tainted with Essene views; if, indeed, in
   perhaps another than its present form, part of it was not actually
   Essene. Lastly, we find what seems to us yet another covert allusion
   [1639] to Essene practices, similar to that which has already been
   noticed. [1640] For, immediatley after consigning to destruction all
   who denied that there was proof in the Pentateuch for the Resurrection
   (evidently the Sadducees), those who denied that the Law was from
   heaven (the Minim, or heretics - probably the Jewish Christians), and
   all Epicureans' [1641] (materialists), the same punishment is assigned
   to those who read externe writings' (Sepharim haChitsonim) and who
   whispered' (a magical formula) over a wound.' [1642] Both the
   Babylonian and the Jerusalem Talmud [1643] offer a strange explanation
   of this practice; perhaps, because they either did not, or else would
   not, understand the allusion. But to us it seems at least significant
   that as, in the first quoted instance, the mention of the Chitsonim is
   conjoined with a condemnation of the exclusive use of white garments in
   worship, which we know to have been an Essene peculiarity, so the
   condemnation of the use of Chitsonim writings with that of magical
   cures. [1644] At the same time, we are less bound to insist on these
   allusions as essential to our argument, since those, who have given
   another derivation than ours to the name Essenes, express themselves
   unable to find in ancient Jewish writings any trustworthy reference to
   the sect.

   On one point, at least, our inquiry into the three parties' can leave
   no doubt. The Essenes could never have been drawn either to the person,
   or the preaching of John the Baptist. Similarly, the Sadducees would,
   after they knew its real character and goal, turn contemptuously from a
   movement which would awaken no sympathy in them, and could only become
   of interest when it threatened to endanger their class by awakening
   popular enthusiasm, and so rousing the suspicions of the Romans. To the
   Pharisees there were questions of dogmatic, ritual, and even national
   importance involved, which made the barest possibility of what John
   announced a question of supreme moment. And, although we judge that the
   report which the earliest Pharisaic hearers of John [1645] brought to
   Jerusalem - no doubt, detailed and accurate - and which led to the
   despatch of the deputation, would entirely predispose them against the
   Baptist, yet it behooved them, as leaders of public opinion, to take
   such cognisance of it, as would not only finally determine their own
   relation to the movement, but enable them effectually to direct that of
   others also.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [1480] This chapter contains, among other matter, a detailed and
   critical examination of the great Jewish Sects, such as was necessary
   in a work on The Times.' as well as The Life,' of Christ.

   [1481] i. 19-28.

   [1482] This point is fully discussed by  Lücke, Evang. Joh., vol. i.
   pp. 396-398.

   [1483] Comp. St. John v. 15, 16; ix. 18, 22; xviii. 12, 31.

   [1484] So Professor Westcott, in his Commentary on the passage
   (Speaker's Comment., N.T., vol. ii. p. 18), where he notes that the
   expression in St. John viii. 3 is unauthentic.

   [1485] Sanh. i. 5.

   [1486] Of this the Sanhedrin must have been perfectly aware. Comp. St.
   Matt. iii. 7; St. Luke iii. 15 &c.

   [1487] For ex. Yoma 1. 5.

   [1488] Comp. The Temple, its Ministry and Services,' p. 75. Dr. Geiger
   (Urschr. u. Uebersetz. d. Bibel, pp. 113, 114) ascribes to them,
   however, a much wider jurisdiction. Some of his inferences (such as at
   pp. 115, 116) seem to me historically unsupported.

   [1489] St. Matt. iii. 7 &c.

   [1490] Comp. Book I. ch. viii.

   [1491] I use the term metaphysical here in the sense of all that is
   above the natural, not merely the speculative, but the supersensuous
   generally.

   [1492] The word aresis has received its present meaning chiefly from
   the adjective attaching to it in 2 Pet. ii. 1. In Acts xxiv. 5, 14,
   xxviii. 22, it is vituperatively applied to Christians; in 1 Cor. xi.
   19, Gal. v. 20, it seems to apply to diverging practices of a sinful
   kind; in Titus iii. 10, the heretic' seems one who held or taught
   diverging opinions or practices. Besides, it occurs in the N.T. once to
   mark the Sadducees, and twice the Pharisees (Acts v. 17; xv. 5, and
   xxvi. 5).

   [1493] I mean on historical, not theological grounds.

   [1494] I here refer to the following passages: Jewish War ii. 8. 14;
   Ant. xiii. 5. 9; 10. 5, 6; xvii. 2. 4; xviii. 1, 2, 3, 4.

   [1495] For a full discussion of the character and writings of Josephus,
   I would refer to the article in Dr. Smith's Dict. of Chr. Biogr. vol.
   iii.

   [1496] Jos. Ant. xvii. 2. 4.

   [1497] Chag. ii. 5, 7; comp. Tohor. vii. 5.

   [1498] For ex. Kidd. 33 b.

   [1499] Bekh. 30.

   [1500] Abba Saul would also have freed all students from that
   formality.

   [1501] Bekhor. 30.

   [1502] Comp. the suggestion as to the significant time when this
   alteration was introduced, in Sketches of Jewish Social Life,' pp. 228,
   229.

   [1503] Dem. ii. 2.

   [1504] Demai ii.3.

   [1505] In St. Luke xi.42; xviii. 12; St. Matt. xxiii. 23.

   [1506] In St. Luke xi. 39, 41; St. Matt. xxiii. 25, 26.

   [1507] Sot. 22 b; Jer. Ber. ix. 7.

   [1508] Sot. iii. 4.

   [1509] Pes. 70 b.

   [1510] Abhoth de R. Nathan 5.

   [1511] Jer. Chag. 79 d; Tos. Chag. iii.

   [1512] Erub. 54 a. I give the latter clause, not as in our edition of
   the Talmud, but according to a more correct reading (Levy, Neuhebr.
   Wörterb. vol. ii. p. 102).

   [1513] It could serve no good purpose to give instances. They are
   readily accessible to those who have taste or curiosity in that
   direction.

   [1514] So, erroneously, Wellhausen, in his treatise Pharisäer u.
   Sadduc.'; and partially, as it seems to me, even Schürer (Neutest.
   Zeitgesch.). In other respects also these two learned men seem too much
   under the influence of Geiger and Kuenen.

   [1515] Megill. Taan. Per. iv. ed. Warsh. p. 8 a.

   [1516] Wellhausen has carried his criticisms and doubts of the Hebrew
   Scholion on the Megill. Taan. (or Roll of Fasts') too far.

   [1517] Even such a book as the Meg. Taan. does not accuse them of
   absolute ignorance, but only of being unable to prove their dicta from
   Scripture (comp. Pereq x. p. 15 b, which may well mark the extreme of
   Anti-Sadduceeism).

   [1518] Sanh. 33 t Horay 4 a.

   [1519] Some traditional explanation of the Law of Moses was absolutely
   necessary, if it was to be applied to existing circumstances. It would
   be a great historical inaccuracy to imagine that the Sadducees rejected
   the whole pardosis tn presbutron (St. Matt. xv. 2) from Ezra downwards.

   [1520] This is the meaning of Ant. xiii. 10. 6, and clearly implied in
   xviii. 1,3,4, and War ii. 8. 14.

   [1521] Ab. iii. 11; v 8.

   [1522] Jos. War i. 5. 2.

   [1523] M. Derenbourg (Hist. de la Palest., p. 122, note) rightly
   remarks, that the Rabbinic equivalent for Josephus' krbeia is {hebrew},
   heaviness, and that the Pharisees were the {hebrew} or makers heavy.'
   What a commentary this on the charge of Jesus about the heavy burdens'
   of the Pharisees! St. Paul uses the same term as Josephus to describe
   the Pharisaic system, where our A.V. renders the perfect manner' (Acts
   xxii. 3). Comp. also Acts xxvi. 5: kat tn kribestten aresin.

   [1524] Ant. xviii. 1. 3.

   [1525] Ant. xviii. 1. 3.

   [1526] Sanh. xi. 3.

   [1527] The subject is discussed at length in Jer. Ber. i. 7 (p. 3 b),
   where the superiority of the Scribe over the Prophet is shown (1) from
   Mic. ii. 6 (without the words in italics), the one class being the
   Prophets (prophesy not'), the other the Scribes (prophesy'); (2) from
   the fact that the Prophets needed the attestation of miracles. (Duet.
   xiii. 2), but not the Scribes (Deut. xvii. 11).

   [1528] St. Matt xxii. 23, and parallel passages; Acts iv. 1, 2; xxiii.
   8.

   [1529] War ii. 8. 14.

   [1530] Ant. xviii 1. 4.

   [1531] Ab. d. R. Nath.5.

   [1532] Ber ix. 5.

   [1533] This is admitted even by Geiger (Urschr. u. Uebers. p. 130,
   note), though in the passage above referred to he would emendate:
   Scribes of the Samaritans.' The passage, however, implies that these
   were Sadducean Scribes, and that they were both willing and able to
   enter into theological controversy with their opponents.

   [1534] Rabbi Gamaliel's proof was taken from Deut. i. 8: Which Jehovah
   sware unto your fathers to give unto them.' It is not said unto you,'
   but unto them,' which implies the resurrection of the dead. The
   argument is kindred in character, but far inferior in solemnity and
   weight, to that employed by our Lord, St. Matt. xxii. 32, from which it
   is evidently taken. (See book v. ch. iv., the remarks on that passage.)

   [1535] It is a curious circumstance in connection with the question of
   the Sadducees, that it raised another point in controversy between the
   Pharisees and the Samaritans,' or, as I would read it, the Sadducees,
   since the Samaritans' (Sadducees?) only allowed marriage with the
   betrothed, not the actually wedded wife of a deceased childless brother
   (Jer Yebam. i. 6, p. 3 a). The Sadducees in the Gospel argue on the
   Pharisaic theory, apparently for the twofold object of casting ridicule
   on the doctrine of the Resurrection, and on the Pharisaic practice of
   marriage with the espoused wife of a deceased brother.

   [1536] Acts xxiii.

   [1537] The expression is used in the heathen (philosophical) sense of
   fate by Philo, De Incorrupt. Mundi. section 10. ed. Mangey, vol. ii. p.
   496 (ed. Fref. p. 947).

   [1538] In Jewish War ii. 8. 14.

   [1539] Ant. xviii. 1. 3.

   [1540] Ant. xiii. 5. 9.

   [1541] Sanh. 29 a.

   [1542] Chull. 7 b.

   [1543] The following curious instance of this is given. On one occasion
   King Solomon, when attended by his two Scribes, Elihoreph and Ahiah
   (both supposed to have been Ethiopians), suddenly perceived the Angel
   of Death. As he looked so sad, Solomon ascertained as its reason, that
   the two Scribes had been demanded at his hands. On this Solomon
   transported them by magic into the land of Luz, where, according to
   legend, no man ever died. Next morning Solomon again perceived the
   Angel of Death, but this time laughing, because, as he said. Solomon
   had sent these men to the very place whence he had been ordered to
   fetch them (Sukk, 53 a).

   [1544] Those who understand the character of Josephus' writings will be
   at no loss for his reasons in this. It would suit his purpose to speak
   often of the fatalism of the Pharisees, and to represent them as a
   philosophical sect like the Stoics. The latter, indeed, he does in so
   many words.

   [1545] For details comp. Hamburger, Real-Encykl. ii. pp. 103-106 -
   though there is some tendency to colouring' in this as in other
   articles of the work.

   [1546] Yoma 38 b.

   [1547] Baba B. 16 a.

   [1548] Siphré on Deut. xi. 26, § 53, ed. Friedmann, p. 86 a.

   [1549] Ab. iii. 15.

   [1550] Jer. Chag. iii. 8; Tos. Chag. iii., where the reader will find
   sufficient proof that the Sadducees were not in the wrong.

   [1551] In Yad. iv. 6, 7.

   [1552] The Pharisees replied by asking on what ground the bones of a
   High-Priest defiled,' but not those of a donkey. And when the Sadducees
   ascribed it to the great value of the former, lest a man should profane
   the bones of his parents by making spoons of them, the Pharisees
   pointed out that the same argument applied to defilement by the Holy
   Scriptures. In general, it seems that the Pharisees were afraid of the
   satirical comments of the Sadducees on their doings (comp. Parah iii.
   3).

   [1553] Wellhausen rightly denounces the strained interpretation of
   Geiger, who would find here - as in other points - hidden political
   allusions.

   [1554] Comp. The Temple, its Ministry and Services,' pp. 309, 312. The
   rubrics are in the Mishnic tractate Parab, and in Tos. Par.

   [1555] Parah iii.; Tos. Par. 3.

   [1556] Parah iii. 7.

   [1557] The Mishnic passage is difficult, but I believe I have given the
   sense correctly.

   [1558] Shabb. 108 a.

   [1559] Vv. 15, 16.

   [1560] Men. x. 3; 65 a; Chag. ii. 4.

   [1561] This difference, which is more intricate than appears at first
   sight, requires a longer discussion than can be given in this place.

   [1562] Rosh haSh. i. 7; ii. 1; Tos. Rosh haSh. ed. Z. i. 15.

   [1563] Sukk. 48 b; comp. Jos. Ant. xiii 13. 5.

   [1564] For details about the observances on this festival I must refer
   to The Temple, its Ministry and Services.'

   [1565] Sukk. 43 b; and in the Jerus. Talm. and Tos. Sukk. iii. 1.

   [1566] Jer. Yoma i. 5; Yoma 19 b; 53 a.

   [1567] Specially Ant. xx. 9.

   [1568] Other differences, which rest merely on the authority of the
   Hebrew Commentary on The Roll of Fasts,' I have discarded as
   unsupported by historical evidence. I am sorry to have in this respect,
   and on some other aspect of the question, to differ from the learned
   Article on The Sadducees,' in Kitto's Bibl. Encycl.

   [1569] Decreed in Deut. xix. 21.

   [1570] Makk. i. 6.

   [1571] Baba B. 115 b; Tos. Yad. ii. 20.

   [1572] Yad. iv. 7 and Tos. Yad.

   [1573] Geiger, and even Derenbourg, see in these things deep political
   allusions - which, as it seems to me, have no other existence than in
   the ingenuity of these writers.

   [1574] Ant. xiii. 10. 6.

   [1575] Ant. xvii. 2. 4.

   [1576] Acts v. 17; Ant. xx. 9. 1.

   [1577] So Wellhausen, u. s.

   [1578] So Geiger, u. s.

   [1579] Sheqal. iv. 4; vi. 1; Eduy. viii. 2; Ab. ii. B &c.

   [1580] St. John i. 24.

   [1581] In the Ab. de R. Nath. c. 5.

   [1582] Tseduqim and Tsadduqim mark different transliterations of the
   name Sadducees.

   [1583] This theory, defended with ingenuity by Geiger, had been of late
   adopted by most writers, and even by Schürer. But not a few of the
   statements hazarded by Dr. Geiger seem to me to have no historical
   foundation, and the passages quoted in support either do not convey
   such meaning, or else are of no authority.

   [1584] So Dr. Löw, as quoted in Dr. Ginsburg's article.

   [1585] Yad. iv. 6 &c.

   [1586] The argument as against the derivation of the term Sadducee
   would, of course, hold equally good, even if each party had assumed,
   not received from the other, its characteristic name.

   [1587] Ps. xxx. 4; xxxi. 23; xxxvii. 28.

   [1588] vi. 21; ix. 1; x. 11; Neh. ix. 2.

   [1589] Comp. generally, Sketches of Jewish Social Life,' pp. 230, 231.

   [1590] Ber. v. 1; comp. with Vayyikra R. 2, ed. Warsh. t. iii. p. 5 a.

   [1591] Here it deserves special notice that the Old Testament term
   Chasid, which the Pharisees arrogated to themselves, is rendered in the
   Peshito by Zaddîq. Thus, as it were, the opponents of Pharisaism would
   play off the equivalent Tsaddiq against the Pharisaic arrogation of
   Chasid.

   [1592] Such by-names, by a play on a word, are not unfrequent. Thus, in
   Shem. R. 5 (ed. Warsh. p. 14 a, lines 7 and 8 from top), Pharaoh's
   charge that the Israelites were {hebrew} idle,' is, by a transposition
   of letters made to mean that they were prnoi.

   [1593] It seems strange, that so accurate a scholar as Schürer should
   have regarded the national party' as merely an offshoot from the
   Pharisees (Neutest. Zeitgesch. p. 431), and appealed in proof to a
   passage in Josephus (Ant. xviii. 1.6), which expressly calls the
   Nationalists a fourth party, by the side of the Pharisees, Sadducees,
   and Essenes. That in practice they would carry out the strict Judaism
   of the Pharisees, does not make them Pharisees.

   [1594] Philo, Quod omnis probus liber, 12, ed, Mang. ii. p. 457; Jos.
   Ant. xviii. 1.5.

   [1595] They are also mentioned by Pliny (Hist. Natur. v. 16).

   [1596] This may be inferred from Josephus' Life, c. 2.

   [1597] This point is conclusively disposed of by Bishop Lightfoot in
   the third Dissertation appended to his Commentary on the Colossians
   (pp. 397-419). In general, the masterly discussion of the whole subject
   by Bishop Lightfoot, alike in the body of the Commentary and in the
   three Dissertations appended, may be said to form a new era in the
   treatment of the whole question, the points on which we would venture
   to express dissent being few and unimportant. The reader who wishes to
   see a statement of the supposed analogy between Essenism and the
   teaching of Christ will find it in Dr. Ginsburg's Article Essenes,' in
   Smith and Wace's Dictionary of Christian Biography. The same line of
   argument has been followed by Frankel and Gärtz. The reasons for the
   opposite view are set forth in the text.

   [1598] Jos. Ant. xiii. 5. 9.

   [1599] 105-104 b.c.; Ant. xiii. 11. 2; War i. 3. 5.

   [1600] Compare Josephus, Ant. xiii. 5, 9; xv. 10. 4, 5; xviii. 1. 5;
   Jewish War, ii. 8, 2-13; Philo, Quod omnis probus liber, 12, 13 (ed.
   Mangey, ii. 457-459; ed. Par. and Frcf. pp. 876-879; ed. Richter, vol.
   v. pp. 285-288); Pliny, N.H. v. 16, 17. For references in the Fathers
   see Bp. Lightfoot on Colossians, pp. 83, 84 (note). Comp. the
   literature there and in Schürer (Neutest. Zeitgesch. p. 599), to which
   I would add Dr. Ginburg's Art. Essenes' in Smith's and Wace's Dict. of
   Chr. Biogr., vol. ii.

   [1601] Philo, ii.p. 457.

   [1602] Pliny, Hist. Nat. v. 16, 17.

   [1603] Philo, u.s. p. 632; Jos. Jewish War ii. 8. 4.

   [1604] Ant. xiii. 11.2; xv. 10. 5; xvii. 13.3.

   [1605] War v. 4. 2.

   [1606] Philo, u. s. p. 632.

   [1607] War ii. 8. 9.

   [1608] War ii. 8. 6.

   [1609] u. s. § 4.

   [1610] The distinction is Schürer's, although he is disposed to
   minimise this point. More on this in the sequel.

   [1611] Jos. War ii. 8. 5; Ant. xviii. 1. 5.

   [1612] Schürer regards these children as forming the first of the four
   classes' or grades' into which the Essenes were arranged. But this is
   contrary to the express statement of Philo, that only adults were
   admitted into the order, and hence only such could have formed a grade'
   or class' of the community. (Comp. ed. Mangey, ii. p. 632, from
   Eusebius' Præpar. Evang. lib. viii. cap. 8.) I have adopted the view of
   Bishop Lightfoot on the subject. Even the marrying order of the
   Essenes, however, only admitted of wedlock under great restrictions,
   and as a necessary evil (War, u. s. sections 13). Bishop Lightfoot
   suggests, that these were not Essenes in the strict sense, but only
   like the third order of a Benedictine or Franciscan brotherhood.'

   [1613] War ii. 8.7.

   [1614] Can this possibly have any connection in the mind of Josephus
   with the later Nationalist movement? This would agree with his
   insistance on their respect for those in authority. Otherwise the
   emphasis laid on abstinence from robbery seems strange in such a sect.

   [1615] I venture to think that even Bishop Lightfoot lays too much
   stress on the affinity to Pharisaism. I can discover few, if any,
   traces of Pharisaism in the distinctive sense of the term. Even their
   frequent washings had a different object from those of the Pharisees.

   [1616] For a similar reason, and in order not to affront the Divine
   rays of light' - the light as symbol, if not outcome, of the Deity -
   they covered themselves, in such circumstances, with the mantle which
   was their ordinary dress in winter.

   [1617] Ed. Mang ii. p. 458.

   [1618] Jos. War ii. 8. 12; comp. Ant. xiii. 11. 2; xv. 10. 5; xvii. 13.
   3.

   [1619] There can be no question that these Essene cures were magical,
   and their knowledge of remedies esoteric.

   [1620] Bishop Lightfoot refers to a part of the Sibylline books which
   seems of Christian authorship.

   [1621] ch. xxxi. - lxxi.

   [1622] Comp. Lucius, Essenismus, p. 109. This brochure, the latest on
   the subject, (though interesting, adds little to our knowledge.)

   [1623] See Appendix XIII. on the Angelology, Satanology, and Demonology
   of the Jews.

   [1624] Ch. x.

   [1625] Comp. also the Sepher Noach in Jellinek's Beth. haMidr. part
   iii. pp. 155, 156.

   [1626] c. 48.

   [1627] Only after writing the above I have noticed, that Jellinek
   arrives at the same conclusion as to the Essene character of the Book
   of Jubilees (Beth ha-Midr. iii. p. xxxiv., xxxv.), and of the Book of
   Enoch (u.s. ii. p. xxx.).

   [1628] So Zeller, Philosophie d. Griechen, ed. 1881, iii. pp. 277-337.

   [1629] So Bishop Lightfoot, in his masterly treatment of the whole
   subject in his Commentary on the Ep. to the Colossians.

   [1630] By Bishop Lightfoot, u.s. pp. 382-396 In general, I prefer on
   many points - such as the connection between Essenism and Gnosticism
   &c., simply to refer readers to the classic work of Bishop Lightfoot.

   [1631] Sepher Noach ap. Jellinek iii. p. 156.

   [1632] As regards any connection between the Essenes and the
   Therapeutai, Lucius has denied the existence of such a sect and the
   Philonic authorship of de V. cont. The latter we have sought to defend
   in the Art. Philo (Smith and Wace's Dict. of Chr. Biogr. iv.), and to
   show that the Therapeutes were not a sect' but an esoteric circle of
   Alexandrian Jews.

   [1633] Deutsch, Remains, pp. 359, 360.

   [1634] As other instances may be quoted such as Istagioth ({hebrew}) =
    stge, roof; Istuli ({hebrew}) = stle, a pillar; Dikhsumini ({hebrew})
   = dexamene, cistern.

   [1635] Megill. 24 b, lines 4 and 5 from bottom.

   [1636] The practice of beginning prayers before, and ending them as the
   sun had just risen, seems to have passed from the Essenes to a party in
   the Synagogue itself, and is pointedly alluded to as a characteristic
   of the so-called Vethikin, Ber. 9 b; 25 b; 26 a. But another
   peculiarity about them, noticed in Rosh haSh. 32 b (the repetition of
   all the verses in the Pentateuch containing the record of God in the
   so-called Malkhiyoth, Zikhronoth, and Shophroth), shows that they were
   not Essenes, since such Rabbinic practices must have been alien to
   their system.

   [1637] Sanh. x 1.

   [1638] In Sanh. 100 b they are explained as the writings of the
   Sadducees,' and by another Rabbi as the Book of Sirach' (Ecclus. in the
   Apocrypha). Hamburger, as sometimes, makes assertions on this point
   which cannot be supported (Real-Wörterb. ii. p. 70). Jer. Sanh. 28 a
   explains, Such as the books of Ben Sirach and of Ben La'nah' - the
   latter apparently also an Apocryphal book, for which the Midr. Kohel.
   (ed. Warsh. iii. p. 106 b) has the book of Ben Tagla' La'nah' and
   Tagla' could scarcely be symbolic names. On the other hand, I cannot
   agree with Fürst (Kanon d. A.T. p. 99), who identifies them with
   Apollonius of Tyana and Empedocles. Dr. Neubauer suggests that Ben
   La'nah may be a corruption of Sibylline Oracles.

   [1639] In Sanh. x. 1.

   [1640] Meg. 24 b.

   [1641] The Epicureans,' or freethinkers,' are explained to be such as
   speak contemptuously of the Scriptures, or of the Rabbis (Jer. Sanh. 27
   d). In Sanh. 38 b a distinction is made between stranger' (heathen)
   Epicureans, and Israelitish Epicureans. With the latter it is unwise to
   enter into argument.

   [1642] Both in the Jer. and Bab. Talm. it is conjoined with spitting,'
   which was a mode of healing, usual at the time. The Talmud forbids the
   magical formula, only in connection with this spitting' - and then for
   the curious reason that the Divine Name is not to be recorded while
   spitting.' But, while in the Bab. Talm. the prohibition bears against
   such spitting' before pronouncing the formula, in the Jer. Talm. it is
   after uttering it.

   [1643] Sanh. 101 a; Jer. Sanh. p. 28 b.

   [1644] Bishop Lightfoot has shown that the Essene cures were magical
   (u. s. pp. 91 &c. and p. 377).

   [1645] St. Matt. iii. 7.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER III.
THE TWOFOLD TESTIMONY OF JOHN - THE FIRST SABBATH OF JESUS'S MINISTRY - THE
FIRST SUNDAY - THE FIRST DISCIPLES.

   (St. John i. 15-51.)

   THE forty days, which had passed since Jesus had first come to him,
   must have been to the Baptist a time of soul-quickening, of unfolding
   understanding, and of ripened decision. We see it in his more
   emphasised testimony to the Christ; in his fuller comprehension of
   those prophecies which had formed the warrant and substance of his
   Mission; but specially in the yet more entire self-abnegation, which
   led him to take up a still lowlier position, and acquiescingly to
   realise that his task of heralding was ending, and that what remained
   was to point those nearest to him, and who had most deeply drunk of his
   spirit, to Him Who had come. And how could it be otherwise? On first
   meeting Jesus by the banks of Jordan, he had felt the seeming
   incongruity of baptizing One of Whom he had rather need to be baptized.
   Yet this, perhaps, because he had beheld himself by the Brightness of
   Christ, rather than looked at the Christ Himself. What he needed was
   not to be baptized, but to learn that it became the Christ to fulfil
   all righteousness. This was the first lesson. The next, and completing
   one, came when, after the Baptism, the heavens opened, the Spirit
   descended, and the Divine Voice of Testimony pointed to, and explained
   the promised sign. [1646] It told him, that the work, which he had
   begun in the obedience of faith, had reached the reality of fulfilment.
   The first was a lesson about the Kingdom; the second about the King.
   And then Jesus was parted from him, and led of the Spirit into the
   wilderness.

   Forty days since then - with these events, this vision, those words
   ever present to his mind! It had been the mightiest impulse; nay, it
   must have been a direct call from above, which first brought John from
   his life-preparation of lonely communing with God to the task of
   preparing Israel for that which he knew was preparing for them. He had
   entered upon it, not only without illusions, but with such entire
   self-forgetfulness, as only deepest conviction of the reality of what
   he announced could have wrought. He knew those to whom he was to speak
   - the preoccupation, the spiritual dulness, the sins of the great mass;
   the hypocrisy, the unreality, the inward impenitence of their spiritual
   leaders; the perverseness of their direction; the hollowness and
   delusiveness of their confidence as being descended from Abraham. He
   saw only too clearly their real character, and knew the near end of it
   all: how the axe was laid to the barren tree, and how terribly the fan
   would sift the chaff from the wheat. And yet he preached and baptized;
   for, deepest in his heart was the conviction, that there was a Kingdom
   at hand, and a King coming. As we gather the elements of that
   conviction, we find them chiefly in the Book of Isaiah. His speech and
   its imagery, and, especially, the burden of his message, were taken
   from those prophecies. [1647] Indeed, his mind seems saturated with
   them; they must have formed his own religious training; and they were
   the preparation for his work. This gathering up of the Old Testament
   rays of light and glory into the burning-glass of Evangelic prophecy
   had set his soul on fire. No wonder that, recoiling equally from the
   externalism of the Pharisees, and the merely material purism of the
   Essenes, he preached quite another doctrine, of inward repentance and
   renewal of life.

   One picture was most brightly reflected on those pages of Isaiah. It
   was that of the Anointed, Messiah, Christ, the Representative
   Israelite, the Priest, King, and Prophet, [1648] in Whom the
   institution and sacramental meaning of the Priesthood, and of
   Sacrifices, found their fulfilment. [1649] In his announcement of the
   Kingdom, in his call to inward repentance, even in his symbolic
   Baptism, that Great Personality always stood out before the mind of
   John, as the One all-overtopping and overshadowing Figure in the
   background. It was the Isaiah-picture of the King in His beauty,' the
   vision of the land of far distances' [1650] [1651] - to him a reality,
   of which Sadducee and Essene had no conception, and the Pharisee only
   the grossest misconception. This also explains how the greatest of
   those born of women was also the most humble, the most retiring, and
   self-forgetful. In a picture such as that which filled his whole
   vision, there was no room for self. By the side of such a Figure all
   else appeared in its real littleness, and, indeed, seemed at best but
   as shadows cast by its light. All the more would the bare suggestion on
   the part of the Jerusalem deputation, that he might be the Christ, seem
   like a blasphemy, from which, in utter self-abasement, he would seek
   shelter in the scarce-ventured claim to the meanest office which a
   slave could discharge. He was not Elijah. Even the fact that Jesus
   afterwards, in significant language, pointed to the possibility of his
   becoming such to Israel (St. Matt. xi. 14), proves that he claimed it
   not; [1652] not that prophet;' not even a prophet. He professed not
   visions, revelations, special messages. All else was absorbed in the
   great fact: he was only the voice of one that cried, Prepare ye the
   way!' Viewed especially in the light of those self-glorious times, this
   reads not like a fictitious account of a fictitious mission; nor was
   such the profession of an impostor, an associate in a plot, or an
   enthusiast. There was deep reality of all-engrossing conviction which
   underlay such self-denial of mission.

   And all this must have ripened during the forty days of probably
   comparative solitude, [1653] only relieved by the presence of such
   disciples' as, learning the same hope, would gather around him. What he
   had seen and what he had heard threw him back upon what he had expected
   and believed. It not only fulfilled, it transfigured it. Not that,
   probably, he always maintained the same height which he then attained.
   It was not in the nature of things that it should be so. We often
   attain, at the outset of our climbing, a glimpse, afterwards hid from
   us in our laborious upward toil till the supreme height is reached.
   Mentally and spiritually we may attain almost at a bound results, too
   often lost to us till again secured by long reflection, or in the
   course of painful development. This in some measure explains the
   fulness of John's testimony to the Christ as the Lamb of God, Which
   taketh away the sin of the world,' when at the beginning we find
   ourselves almost at the goal of New Testament teaching. It also
   explains that last strife of doubt and fear, when the weary wrestler
   laid himself down to find refreshment and strength in the shadow of
   those prophecies, which had first called him to the contest. But during
   those forty days, and in the first meetings with Jesus which followed,
   all lay bathed in the morning-light of that heavenly vision, and that
   Divine truth wakened in him the echoes of all those prophecies, which
   these thirty years had been the music of his soul.

   And now, on the last of those forty days, simultaneously with the final
   great Temptation of Jesus [1654]   which must have summed up all that
   had preceded it in the previous days, came the hour of John's
   temptation by the deputation from Jerusalem. [1655] Very gently it came
   to him, like the tempered wind that fans the fire into flame, not like
   that keen, desolating storm-blast which swept over the Master. To John,
   as now to us, it was only the fellowship of His sufferings, which he
   bore in the shelter of that great Rock over which its intenseness had
   spent itself. Yet a very real temptation it was, this provoking to the
   assumption of successively lower grades of self-assertion, where only
   entire self-abnegation was the rightful feeling. Each suggestion of
   lower office (like the temptations of Christ) marked an increased
   measure of temptation, as the human in his mission was more and more
   closely neared. And greatest temptation it was when, after the first
   victory, came the not unnatural challenge of his authority for what he
   said and did. This was, of all others, the question which must at all
   times, from the beginning of his mission to the hour of his death, have
   pressed most closely upon him, since it touched not only his
   conscience, but the very ground of his mission, nay, of his life. That
   it was such temptation is evidenced by the fact that, in the hour of
   his greatest loneliness and depression it formed his final contest, in
   which he temporarily paused, like Jacob in his Israel-struggle, though,
   like him, he failed not in it. For what was the meaning of that
   question which the disciples of John brought to Jesus: Art Thou He that
   should come, or do we look for another?' other than doubt of his own
   warrant and authority for what he had said and done? But in that first
   time of his trial at Bethabara he overcame, the first temptation by the
   humility of his intense sincerity, the second by the absolute
   simplicity of his own experimental conviction; the first by what he had
   seen, the second by what he had heard concerning the Christ at the
   banks of Jordan. And so, also, although perhaps afar off,' it must ever
   be to us in like temptation.

   Yet, as we view it, and without needlessly imputing malice prepense to
   the Pharisaic deputation, their questions seemed but natural. After his
   previous emphatic disclaimer at the beginning of his preaching (St.
   Luke iii. 15), of which they in Jerusalem could scarcely have been
   ignorant, the suggestion of his Messiahship - not indeed expressly
   made, but sufficiently implied to elicit what the language of St. John
   [1656] shows to have been the most energetic denial - could scarcely
   have been more than tentative. It was otherwise with their question
   whether he was Elijah?' Yet, bearing in mind what we know of the Jewish
   expectations of Elijah, and how his appearance was always readily
   recognised, [1657] this also could scarcely have been meant in its full
   literality - but rather as ground for the further question after the
   goal and warrant of his mission. Hence also John's disavowing of such
   claims is not satisfactorily accounted for by the common explanation,
   that he denied being Elijah in the sense of not being what the Jews
   expected of the Forerunner of the Messiah: the real, identical Elijah
   of the days of Ahab; or else, that he denied being such in the sense of
   the peculiar Jewish hopes attaching to his reappearance in the last
   days.' There is much deeper truth in the disclaimer of the Baptist. It
   was, indeed, true that, as foretold in the Angelic announcement, [1658]
   he was sent in the spirit and power of Elias,' that is, with the same
   object and the same qualifications. Similarly, it is true what, in His
   mournful retrospect of the result of John's mission, and in the
   prospect of His own end, the Saviour said of him, Elias is indeed
   come,' but they knew him not, but have done unto him whatsoever they
   listed.' [1659] But on this very recognition and reception of him by
   the Jews depended his being to them Elijah - who should turn the hearts
   of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of
   the just,' and so restore all things.' Between the Elijah of Ahab's
   reign, and him of Messianic times, lay the wide cleft of quite another
   dispensation. The spirit and power of Elijah' could restore all
   things,' because it was the dispensation of the Old Testament, in which
   the result was outward, and by outward means. But the spirit and power'
   of the Elijah of the New Testament, which was to accomplish the inward
   restoration through penitent reception of the Kingdom of God in its
   reality, could only accomplish that object if they received it' - if
   they knew him.' And as in his own view, and looking around and forward,
   so also in very fact the Baptist, though Divinely such, was not really
   Elijah to Israel - and this is the meaning of the words of Jesus: And
   if ye will receive it, this is Elias, which was for to come.' [1660]

   More natural still - indeed, almost quite truthful, seems the third
   question of the Pharisees, whether the Baptist was that prophet.' The
   reference here is undoubtedly to Deut. xviii. 15, 18. Not that the
   reappearance of Moses as lawgiver was expected. But as the prediction
   of the eighteenth chapter of Deuteronomy, especially when taken in
   connection with the promise [1661] of a new covenant' with a new law'
   written in the hearts of the people, implied a change in this respect,
   it was but natural that it should have been expected in Messianic days
   by the instrumentality of that prophet.' [1662] Even the various
   opinions broached in the Mishnah, [1663] as to what were to be the
   reformatory and legislative functions of Elijah, prove that such
   expectations were connected with the Forerunner of the Messiah.

   But whatever views the Jewish embassy might have entertained concerning
   the abrogation, renewal, or renovation of the Law [1664] in Messianic
   times, the Baptist repelled the suggestion of his being that prophet'
   with the same energy as those of his being either the Christ or Elijah.
   And just as we notice, as the result of those forty days' communing,
   yet deeper humility and self-abnegation on the part of the Baptist, so
   we also mark increased intensity and directness in the testimony which
   he now bears to the Christ before the Jerusalem deputies. [1665] His
   eye is fixed on the Coming One.'He is as a voice not to be inquired
   about, but heard;' and its clear and unmistakable, but deeply reverent
   utterance is: The Coming One has come.' [1666]

   The reward of his overcoming temptation - yet with it also the fitting
   for still fiercer conflict (which two, indeed, are always conjoined),
   was at hand. After His victorious contest with the Devil, Angels had
   come to minister to Jesus in body and soul. But better than Angels'
   vision came to refresh and strengthen His faithful witness John. On the
   very day of the Baptist's temptation Jesus had left the wilderness. On
   the morrow after it, John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith,
   Behold, the Lamb of God, Which taketh away the sin of the world!' We
   cannot doubt, that the thought here present to the mind of John was the
   description of The Servant of Jehovah,' [1667] as set forth in Is.
   liii. If all along the Baptist had been filled with Isaiah-thoughts of
   the Kingdom, surely in the forty days after he had seen the King, a new
   morning' must have risen upon them, [1668] and the halo of His glory
   shone around the well-remembered prophecy. It must always have been
   Messianically understood; [1669] it formed the groundwork of Messianic
   thought to the New Testament writers [1670] - nor did the Synagogue
   read it otherwise, till the necessities of controversy diverted its
   application, not indeed from the times, but from the Person of the
   Messiah. [1671] But we can understand how, during those forty days,
   this greatest height of Isaiah's conception of the Messiah was the one
   outstanding fact before his view. And what he believed, that he spake,
   when again, and unexpectedly, he saw Jesus.

   Yet, while regarding his words as an appeal to the prophecy of Isaiah,
   two other references must not be excluded from them: those to the
   Paschal Lamb, and to the Daily Sacrifice. These are, if not directly
   pointed to, yet implied. For the Paschal Lamb was, in a sense, the
   basis of all the sacrifices of the Old Testament, not only from its
   saving import to Israel, but as that which really made them the
   Church,' [1672] and people of God. Hence the institution of the Paschal
   Lamb was, so to speak, only enlarged and applied in the daily sacrifice
   of a Lamb, in which this twofold idea of redemption and fellowship was
   exhibited. Lastly, the prophecy of Isaiah liii. was but the complete
   realisation of these two ideas in the Messiah. Neither could the
   Paschal Lamb, with its completion in the Daily Sacrifice, be properly
   viewed without this prophecy of Isaiah, nor yet that prophecy properly
   understood without its reference to its two great types. And here one
   Jewish comment in regard to the Daily Sacrifice (not previously pointed
   out) is the more significant, that it dates from the very time of
   Jesus. The passage reads almost like a Christian interpretation of
   sacrifice. It explains how the morning and evening sacrifices were
   intended to atone, the one for the sins of the night, the other for
   those of the day, so as ever to leave Israel guiltless before God; and
   it expressly ascribes to them the efficacy of a Paraclete - that being
   the word used. [1673] Without further following this remarkable
   Rabbinic commentation, [1674] which stretches back its view of
   sacrifices to the Paschal Lamb, and, beyond it, to that offering of
   Isaac by Abraham which, in the Rabbinic view, was the substratum of all
   sacrifices, we turn again to its teaching about the Lamb of the Daily
   Sacrifice. Here we have the express statement, that both the school of
   Shammai and that of Hillel - the latter more fully - insisted on the
   symbolic import of this sacrifice in regard to the forgiveness of sin.
   Kebhasim' (the Hebrew word for lambs'), explained the school of
   Shammai, because, according to Micah vii. 19, they suppress [in the
   A.V. subdue'] our iniquities (the Hebrew word Kabhash meaning he who
   suppresseth).' [1675] Still more strong is the statement of the school
   of Hillel, to the effect that the sacrifical lambs were termed Kebhasim
   (from kabhas, to wash'), because they wash away the sins of Israel.'
   [1676] The quotation just made gains additional interest from the
   circumstance, that it occurs in a meditation' (if such it may be
   called) for the new moon of the Passover-month (Nisan). In view of such
   clear testimony from the time of Christ, less positiveness of assertion
   might, not unreasonably, be expected from those who declare that the
   sacrifices bore no reference to the forgiveness of sins, just as, in
   the face of the application made by the Baptist and other New Testament
   writers, more exegetical modesty seems called for on the part of those
   who deny the Messianic references in Isaiah.

   If further proof were required that, when John pointed the bystanders
   to the Figure of Jesus walking towards them, with these words: Behold,
   the Lamb of God,' he meant more than His gentleness, meekness, and
   humility, it would be supplied by the qualifying explanation, Which
   taketh away the sin of the world.' We prefer rendering the expression
   taketh away' instead of beareth,' because it is in that sense that the
   LXX. uniformly use the Greek term. Of course, as we view it, the taking
   away presupposes the taking upon Himself of the sin of the world. But
   it is not necessary to suppose that the Baptist clearly understood that
   manner of His Saviourship, which only long afterwards, and reluctantly,
   came to the followers of the Lamb. [1677] That he understood the
   application of His ministry to the whole world, is only what might have
   been expected of one taught by Isaiah; and what, indeed, in one or
   another form, the Synagogue has always believed of the Messiah. What
   was distinctive in the words of the Baptist, seems his view of sin as a
   totality, rather than sins: implying the removal of that great barrier
   between God and man, and the triump in that great contest indicated in
   Gen. iii. 15, which Israel after the flesh failed to perceive. Nor
   should we omit here to notice an undesigned evidence of the Hebraic
   origin of the fourth Gospel; for an Ephesian Gospel, dating from the
   close of the second century, would not have placed in its forefront, as
   the first public testimony of the Baptist (if, indeed, it would have
   introduced him at all), a quotation from Isaiah - still less a
   sacrificial reference.

   The motives which brought Jesus back to Bethabara must remain in the
   indefiniteness in which Scripture has left them. So far as we know,
   there was no personal interview between Jesus and the Baptist. Jesus
   had then and there nothing further to say to the Baptist; and yet on
   the day following that on which John had, in such manner, pointed Him
   out to the bystanders, He was still there, only returning to Galilee
   the next day. Here, at least, a definite object becomes apparent. This
   was not merely the calling of His first disciples, but the necessary
   Sabbath rest; for, in this instance, the narrative supplies the means
   of ascertaining the days of the week on which each event took place. We
   have only to assume, that the marriage in Cana of Galilee was that of a
   maiden, not a widow. The great festivities which accompanied it were
   unlikely, according to Jewish ideas, in the case of a widow; in fact,
   the whole mise en scène of the marriage renders this most improbable.
   Besides, if it had been the marriage of a widow, this (as will
   immediately appear) would imply that Jesus had returned from the
   wilderness on a Saturday, which, as being the Jewish Sabbath, could not
   have been the case. For uniform custom fixed the marriage of a maiden
   on Wednesdays, that of a widow on Thursday. [1678] Counting backwards
   from the day of the marriage in Cana, we arrive at the following
   results. The interview between John and the Sanhedrin-deputation took
   place on a Thursday. The next day,' Friday, Jesus returned from the
   wilderness of the Temptation, and John bore his first testimony to the
   Lamb of God.' The following day, when Jesus appeared a second time in
   view, and when the first two disciples joined Him, was the Saturday, or
   Jewish Sabbath. It was, therefore, only the following day, or Sunday,
   [1679] that Jesus returned to Galilee, [1680] calling others by the
   way. And the third day' after it [1681] - that is, on the Wednesday -
   was the marriage in Cana. [1682]

   If we group around these days the recorded events of each, they almost
   seem to intensify in significance. The Friday of John's first pointing
   to Jesus as the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world,
   recalls that other Friday, when the full import of that testimony
   appeared. The Sabbath of John's last personal view and testimony to
   Christ is symbolic in its retrospect upon the old economy. It seems to
   close the ministry of John, and to open that of Jesus; it is the
   leave-taking of the nearest disciples of John from the old, their
   search after the new. And then on the first Sunday - the beginning of
   Christ's active ministry, the call of the first disciples, the first
   preaching of Jesus.

   As we picture it to ourselves: in the early morning of that Sabbath
   John stood, with the two of his disciples who most shared his thoughts
   and feelings. One of them we know to have been Andrew (v. 40); the
   other, unnamed one, could have been no other than John himself, the
   beloved disciple. [1683] They had heard what their teacher had, on the
   previous day, said of Jesus. But then He seemed to them but as a
   passing Figure. To hear more of Him, as well as in deepest sympathy,
   these two had gathered to their Teacher on that Sabbath morning, while
   the other disciples of John were probably engaged with that, and with
   those, which formed the surroundings of an ordinary Jewish Sabbath.
   [1684] And now that Figure once more appeared in view. None with the
   Baptist but these two. He is not teaching now, but learning, as the
   intensity and penetration of his gaze [1685] calls from him the now
   worshipful repetition of what, on the previous day, he had explained
   and enforced. There was no leave-taking on the part of these two -
   perhaps they meant not to leave John. Only an irresistible impulse, a
   heavenly instinct, bade them follow His steps. It needed no direction
   of John, no call from Jesus. But as they went in modest silence, in the
   dawn of their rising faith, scarce conscious of the what and the why,
   He turned Him. It was not because He discerned it not, but just because
   He knew the real goal of their yet unconscious search, and would bring
   them to know what they sought, that He put to them the question, What
   seek ye?' which elicited a reply so simple, so real, as to carry its
   own evidence. He is still to them the Rabbi - the most honoured title
   they can find - yet marking still the strictly Jewish view, as well as
   their own standpoint of What seek ye?' They wish, yet scarcely dare, to
   say what was their object, and only put it in a form most modest,
   suggestive rather than expressive. There is strict correspondence to
   their view in the words of Jesus. Their very Hebraism of Rabbi' is met
   by the equally Hebraic Come and see;' [1686] their unspoken, but
   half-conscious longing by what the invitation implied (according to the
   most probable reading, Come and ye shall see' [1687]

   It was but early morning - ten o'clock. [1688] What passed on that long
   Sabbath-day we know not save from what happened in its course. From it
   issued the two, not learners now but teachers, bearing what they had
   found to those nearest and dearest. The form of the narrative and its
   very words convey, that the two had gone, each to search for his
   brother - Andrew for Simon Peter, and John for James, though here
   already, at the outset of this history, the haste of energy
   characteristic of the sons of Jona outdistanced the more quiet
   intenseness of John: [1689] He (Andrew) first findeth his own brother.'
   [1690] But Andrew and John equally brought the same announcement, still
   markedly Hebraic in its form, yet filled with the new wine, not only of
   conviction, but of joyous apprehension: We have found the Messias.'
   [1691] This, then, was the outcome of them of that day - He was the
   Messiah; and this the goal which their longing had reached, We have
   found Him.' Quite beyond what they had heard from the Baptist; nay,
   what only personal contact with Jesus can carry to any heart.

   And still this day of first marvellous discovery had not closed. It
   almost seems, as if this Come and see' call of Jesus were emblematic,
   not merely of all that followed in His own ministry, but of the manner
   in which to all time the What seek ye?' of the soul is answered. It
   could scarcely have been but that Andrew had told Jesus of his brother,
   and even asked leave to bring him. The searching, penetrating glance
   [1692] of the Saviour now read in Peter's inmost character his future
   call and work: Thou art Simon, the son of John [1693] - thou shalt be
   called [1694] Cephas, which is interpreted (Grecianised) Peter.' [1695]

   It must not, of course, be supposed that this represents all that had
   passed between Jesus and Peter, any more than that the recorded
   expression was all that Andrew and John had said of Jesus to their
   brothers. Of the interview between John and James his brother, the
   writer, with his usual self-reticence, forbears to speak. But we know
   its result; and, knowing it, can form some conception of what passed on
   that holy evening between the new-found Messiah and His first four
   disciples: of teaching manifestation on His part, and of satisfied
   heart-peace on theirs. As yet they were only followers, learners, not
   yet called to be Apostles, with all of entire renunciation of home,
   family, and other calling which this implied. This, in the course of
   proper development, remained for quite another period. Alike their
   knowledge and their faith for the present needed, and could only bear,
   the call to personal attachment. [1696]

   It was Sunday morning, the first of Christ's Mission-work, the first of
   His Preaching. He was purposing to return to Galilee. It was fitting He
   should do so: for the sake of His new disciples; for what He was to do
   in Galilee; for His own sake. The first Jerusalem-visit must be
   prepared for by them all; and He would not go there till the right time
   - for the Paschal Feast. It was probably a distance of about twenty
   miles from Bethabara to Cana. By the way, two other disciples were to
   be gained - this time not brought, but called, where, and in what
   precise circumstances, we know not. But the notice that Philip was a
   fellow-townsman of Andrew and Peter, seems to imply some
   instrumentality on their part. Similarly, we gather that, afterwards,
   Philip was somewhat in advance of the rest, when he found his
   acquaintance Nathanael, and engaged in conversation with him just as
   Jesus and the others came up. But here also we mark, as another
   characteristic trait of John, that he, and his brother with him, seem
   to have clung close to the Person of Christ, just as did Mary
   afterwards in the house of her brother. It was this intense
   exclusiveness of fellowship with Jesus which traced on his mind that
   fullest picture of the God-Man, which his narrative reflects.

   The call to Philip from the lips of the Saviour met, we know not under
   what circumstances, immediate responsive obedience. Yet, though no
   special obstacles had to be overcome, and hence no special narrative
   was called for, it must have implied much of learning, to judge from
   what he did, and from what he said to Nathanael. There is something
   special about Nathanael's conquest by Christ - rather implied, perhaps,
   than expressed - and of which the Lord's words gives significant hints.
   They seem to point to what had passed in his mind just before Philip
   found him. Alike the expression an Israelite in truth, in whom is no
   guile' [1697] - looking back on what changed the name of Jacob into
   Israel - and the evident reference to the full realisation of Jacob's
   vision in Bethel, [1698] may be an indication that this very vision had
   engaged his thoughts. As the Synagogue understood the narrative, its
   application to the then state of Israel and the Messianic hope would
   most readily suggest itself. Putting aside all extravagances, the
   Synagogue thought, in connection with it, of the rising power of the
   Gentiles, but concluded with the precious comfort of the assurance, in
   Jer. xxx. 11, of Israel's final restoration. [1699] Nathanael
   (Theodore, the gift of God,') had, as we often read of Rabbis, [1700]
   rested for prayer, meditation, or study, in the shadow of that
   wide-spreading tree so common in Palestine, the fig-tree. [1701] The
   approaching Passover-season, perhaps mingling with thoughts of John's
   announcement by the banks of Jordan, would naturally suggest the great
   deliverance of Israel in the age to come;' [1702] all the more,
   perhaps, from the painful contrast in the present. Such a verse as that
   with which, in a well-known Rabbinic work, [1703] the meditation for
   the New Moon of Nisan, the Passover month, closes: Happy is he that
   hath the God of Jacob for his help,' [1704] would recur, and so lead
   back the mind to the suggestive symbol of Jacob's vision, and its
   realisation in the age to come.' [1705]

   These are, of course, only suppositions; but it might well be that
   Philip had found him while still busy with such thoughts. Possibly
   their outcome, and that quite in accordance with Jewish belief at the
   time, may have been, that all that was needed to bring that happy age
   to come' was, that Jacob should become Israel in truth. In such case he
   would himself have been ripening for the Kingdom' that was at hand. It
   must have seemed a startling answer to his thoughts, this announcement,
   made wth the freshness of new and joyous conviction: We have found Him
   of Whom Moses in the Law, and the Prophets, did write.' But this
   addition about the Man of Nazareth, the Son of Joseph, [1706] would
   appear a terrible anti-climax. It was so different from anything that
   he had associated either with the great hope of Israel, or with the
   Nazareth of his own neighbourhood, that his exclamation, without
   implying any special imputation on the little town which he knew so
   well, seems not only natural, but, psychologically, deeply true. There
   was but one answer to this - that which Philip made, which Jesus had
   made to Andrew and John, and which has ever since been the best answer
   to all Christian inquiry: Come and see.' And, despite the
   disappointment, there must have been such moving power in the answer
   which Philip's sudden announcement had given to his unspoken thoughts,
   that he went with him. And now, as ever, when in such spirit we come,
   evidences irrefragable multiplied at every step. As he neared Jesus, he
   heard Him speak to the disciples words concerning him, which recalled,
   truly and actually, what had passed in his soul. But could it really be
   so, that Jesus knew it all? The question, intended to elicit it,
   brought such proof that he could not but burst into the immediate and
   full acknowledgment: Thou art the Son of God,' Who hast read my inmost
   being; Thou art the King of Israel,' Who dost meet its longing and
   hope. And is it not ever so, that the faith of the heart springs to the
   lips, as did the water from the riven rock at the touch of the
   God-gifted rod? It needs not long course of argumentation, nor
   intricate chain of evidences, welded link to link, when the secret
   thoughts of the heart are laid bare, and its inmost longings met. Then,
   as in a moment, it is day, and joyous voice of song greets its birth.

   And yet that painful path of slower learning to enduring conviction
   must still be trodden, whether in the sufferings of the heart, or the
   struggle of the mind. This it is which seems implied in the half-sad
   question of the Master, [1707] yet with full view of the final triumph
   (thou shalt see greater things than these'), and of the true
   realisation in it of that glorious symbol of Jacob's vision. [1708]

   And so Nathanael, the God-given' - or, as we know him in after-history,
   Bartholomew, the son of Telamyon' [1709] - was added to the disciples.
   Such was on that first Sunday the small beginning of the great Church
   Catholic; these the tiny springs that swelled into the mighty river
   which, in its course, has enriched and fertilised the barrenness of the
   far-off lands of the Gentiles.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [1646] St. John i. 33.

   [1647] This is insisted upon by Keim, in his beautiful sketch of the
   Baptist. Would that he had known the Master in the glory of His
   Divinity, as he understood the Forerunner in the beauty of his
   humanity! To show how the whole teaching of the Baptist was, so to
   speak, saturated with Isaiah-language and thoughts, comp. not only Is.
   xl. 3, as the burden of his mission, but as to his imagery (after
   Keim): Generation of vipers, Is. lix. 5; planting of the Lord, Is. v.
   7; trees, vi. 13; x. 15, 18, 33; xl. 24; fire, i. 31; ix. 18; x. 17; v.
   24; xlvii. 14; floor and fan, xxi. 10; xxvii. 27 &c.; xxx. 24; xl. 24;
   xli. 15 &c.; bread and coat to the poor, lviii. 7; the garner, xxi. 10.
   Besides these, the Isaiah reference in his Baptism (Is. lii. 15; i.
   16), and that to the Lamb of God - indeed many others of a more
   indirect character, will readily occur to the reader. Similarly, when
   our Lord would afterwards instruct him in his hour of darkness (St.
   Matt. xi. 2), He points for the solution of his doubts to the
   well-remembered prophecies of Isaiah (Is. xxxv. 5, 6; lxi. 1; viii. 14,
   15).

   [1648] Is. ix. 6 &c.; xi.; xlii.; lii. 13 &c. [iii.]; lxi.

   [1649] Is. liii.

   [1650] Is. xxxiii. 17.

   [1651] I cannot agree with Mr. Cheyne (Prophecies of Is. vol. i. p.
   183), that there is no Messianic reference here. It may not be in the
   most literal sense personally Messianic;' but surely this ideal
   presentation of Israel in the perfectness of its kingdom, and the glory
   of its happiness, is one of the fullest Messianic picture (comp. vv. 17
   to end).

   [1652] This is well pointed out by Keim.

   [1653] We have in a previous chapter suggested that the baptism of
   Jesus had taken place at Bethabara, that is, the furthest northern
   point of his activity, and probably at the close of his baptismal
   ministry. It is not possible in this place to detail the reasons for
   this view. But the learned reader will find remarks on it in Keim, i.
   2, p. 524.

   [1654] This, of course, on the supposition that the Baptism of Jesus
   took place at Bethabara, and hence that the wilderness' into which He
   was driven, was close by. It is difficult to see why, on any other
   supposition, Jesus returned to Bethabara, since evidently it was not
   for the sake of any personal intercourse with John.

   [1655] This is most beautifully suggested by Canon Westcott in his
   Commentary on the passage.

   [1656] He confessed, and denied not' (St. John i. 20). Canon Westcott
   points out, that the combination of a positive and negative' is
   intended to express the fulness of truth,' and that the first term
   marks the readiness of his testimony, the second its completeness.'

   [1657] See Appendix VIII: Rabbinic Traditions about Elijah, the
   Forerunner of the Messiah.'

   [1658] St. Luke i. 17.

   [1659] St. Mark ix. 13; St. Matt. xvii. 12.

   [1660] St. Matt. xi. 14.

   [1661] Jer. xxxi. 31 &c.

   [1662] Can the reference in St. Stephen's speech (Acts vii. 37) apply
   to this expected alteration of the Law? At any rate St. Stephen is on
   his defence for teaching the abolition by Jesus of the Old Testament
   economy. It is remarkable that he does not deny the charge, and that
   his contention is, that the Jews wickedly resisted the authority of
   Jesus (vv. 51-53).

   [1663] Eduy. viii. 7.

   [1664] For the Jewish views on the Law in Messianic times, see Appendix
   XIV.: The Law in Messianic Days.'

   [1665] St. John i. 22-28.

   [1666] The words within quotations are those of Archdeacon Watkins, in
   his Commentary on St. John.

   [1667] Is. lii. 13.

   [1668] Is. viii. 20.

   [1669] Is. lii. 13 - liii.

   [1670] Comp. St. Matt. viii. 17; St. Luke xxii. 37; Acts viii. 32; 1
   Pet. ii. 22.

   [1671] Manifestly, whatever interpretation is made of Is. lii. 13 -
   liii., it applies to Messianic times, even if the sufferer were, as the
   Synagogue now contends, Israel. On the whole subject comp. the most
   learned and exhaustive discussions by Dr. Pusey in his introduction to
   the catena of Jewish Interpretations of Is. liii.

   [1672] To those persons who deny to the people of God under the Old
   Testament the designation Church, we commend the use of that term by
   St. Stephen in Acts vii. 38.

   [1673] Pesiqta, ed. Buber, p. 61 b; comp. more fully in Yalkut p. 248
   d.

   [1674] In i. p. 249 a.

   [1675] This appears more clearly in the Hebrew, where both words
   (lambs' and suppressors') are written exactly the same, {hebrew}. In
   Hillel's derivation it is identified with the root {hebrew} = {hebrew}.

   [1676] And this with special reference to Is. i. 18.

   [1677] This meets the objection of Keim (i. 2, p.552), which proceeds
   on the assumption that the words of the Baptist imply that he knew not
   merely that, but how, Jesus would take away the sin of the world. But
   his words certainly do not oblige us to think, that he had the Cross in
   view. But, surely, it is a most strange idea of Godet, that at His
   Baptism Jesus, like all others, made confession of sins; that, as He
   had none of His own, He set before the Baptist the picture of the sin
   of Israel and of the world; and that this had led to the designation:
   The Lamb of God. Which taketh away the sin of the world.'

   [1678] For the reasons of this, comp. Sketches of Jewish Social Life,'
   p. 151.

   [1679] St. John 1. 43.

   [1680] This may be regarded as another of the undesigned evidences of
   the Hebraic origin of the fourth Gospel. Indeed, it might also be
   almost called an evidence of the truth of the whole narrative.

   [1681] St. John ii. 1.

   [1682] Yet Renan speaks of the first chapters of St. John's Gospel as
   scattered notices, without chronological order!

   [1683] This reticence seems another undesigned evidence of Johannine
   authorship.

   [1684] The Greek has it: John was standing, and from among his
   disciples two.'

   [1685] The word implies earnest, penetrating gaze.

   [1686] The precise date of the origin of this designation is not quite
   clear. We find it in threefold development: Rab, Rabbi, and Rabban -
   amplitudo,' amplitudo mea,' amplitudo nostra,' which mark successive
   stages. As the last of these titles was borne by the grandson of Hillel
   (a.d. 30-50), it is only reasonable to suppose that the two preceding
   ones were current a generation and more before that. Again, we have to
   distinguish the original and earlier use of the title when it only
   applied to teachers, and the later usage when, like the word Doctor,'
   it was given indiscriminately to men of supposed learning. When Jesus
   is so addressed it is in the sense of my Teacher.' Nor can there be any
   reasonable doubt, that thus it was generally current in and before the
   time noted in the Gospels. A still higher title than any of these three
   seems to have been Beribbi, or Berabbi, by which Rabban Gamaliel is
   designated in Shabb. 115 a. It literally means belonging to the house
   of a Rabbi' - as we would say, a Rabbi of Rabbis. On the other hand,
   the expression Come and see' is among the most common Rabbinic
   formulas, although generally connected with the acquisition of special
   and important information.

   [1687] Comp. Canon Westcott's note.

   [1688] The common supposition is, that the time must be computed
   according to the Jewish method, in which case the tenth hour would
   represent 4 p.m. But remembering that the Jewish day ended with sunset,
   it could, in that case, have been scarcely marked, that they abode with
   Him that day.' The correct interpretation would therefore point in
   this, as in the other passages of St. John, to the Asiatic numeration
   of hours, corresponding to our own. Comp. J. B. McLellan's New
   Testament, pp. 740-742.

   [1689] v. 41.

   [1690] This appears from the word first,' used as an adjective here, v.
   41 (although the reading is doubtful), and from the implied reference
   to some one else later on.

   [1691] On the reading of the Aramaic Meshicha by Messias, see Delitzsch
   in the Luther. Zeitschr. for 1876, p. 603 Of course, both Messias and
   Christ mean the Anointed.'

   [1692] The same word as that used in regard to the Baptist looking upon
   Jesus.

   [1693] So according to the best text, and not Jona.

   [1694] Hereafter thou shalt win the name.' - Westcott.

   [1695] So in the Greek, of which the English interpretation is a stone'
   - Keyph, or Keypha, a rock.'

   [1696] The evidence for the great historic difference between this call
   to personal attachment, and that to the Apostolate, is shown - I should
   think beyond the power of cavil - by Godet, and especially by Canon
   Westcott. To these and other commentators the reader must be referred
   on this and many points, which it would be out of place to discuss at
   length in this book.

   [1697] v. 47.

   [1698] v. 51.

   [1699] Tanchuma on the passage, ed. Warsh. p. 38 a, b.

   [1700] Corroborative and illustrative passages are here too numerous,
   perhaps also not sufficiently important, to be quoted in detail.

   [1701] Ewald imagines that this fig-tree' had been in the garden of
   Nathanael's house at Cana, and Archdeacon Watkins seems to adopt this
   view, but, as it seems to me, without historical ground.

   [1702] So in Tanchuma.

   [1703] Pesiqta.

   [1704] Ps. cxlvi 5; Pesiqta, ed. Buber, p. 62 a.

   [1705] Tanchuma, u. s.

   [1706] This, as it would seem, needless addition (if the narrative were
   fictitious) is of the highest evidential value. In an Ephesian Gospel
   of the end of the second century it would have been well-nigh
   impossible.

   [1707] v. 50 comp. the words to Peter in St. John xiii. 36-38; and to
   the disciples, St. John xvi. 31, 32.

   [1708] v. 51.

   [1709] So, at least, most probably. Comp. St. John xxi. 2, and the
   various commentaries.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER IV.
THE MARRIAGE FEAST IN CANA OF GALILEE - THE MIRACLE THAT IS A SIGN.'

   (St. John ii. 1-12.)

   At the close of His Discourse to Nathanael - His first sermon - Jesus
   had made use of an expression which received its symbolic fulfilment in
   His first deed. His first testimony about Himself had been to call
   Himself the Son of Man.' [1710] [1711] We cannot but feel that this
   bore reference to the confession of Nathanael: Thou art the Son of God;
   Thou art the King of Israel.' It is, as if He would have turned the
   disciples from thoughts of His being the Son of God and King of Israel
   to the voluntary humiliation of His Humanity, as being the necessary
   basis of His work, without knowledge of which that of His Divinity
   would have been a barren, speculative abstraction, and that of His
   Kingship a Jewish fleshly dream. But it was not only knowledge of His
   humiliation in His Humanity. For, as in the history of the Christ
   humiliation and glory are always connected, the one enwrapped in the
   other as the flower in the bud, so here also His humiliation as the Son
   of Man is the exaltation of humanity, the realisation of its ideal
   destiny as created in the likeness of God. It should never be
   forgotton, that such teaching of His exaltation and Kingship through
   humiliation and representation of humanity was needful. It was the
   teaching which was the outcome of the Temptation and of its victory,
   the very teaching of the whole Evangelic history. Any other real
   learning of Christ would, as we see it, have been impossible to the
   disciples - alike mentally, as regards foundation and progression, and
   spiritually. A Christ: God, King, and not primarily the Son of Man,'
   would not have been the Christ of Prophecy, nor the Christ of Humanity,
   nor the Christ of salvation, nor yet the Christ of sympathy, help, and
   example. A Christ, God and King, Who had suddenly risen like the fierce
   Eastern sun in midday brightness, would have blinded by his dazzling
   rays (as it did Saul on the way to Damascus), not risen with kindly
   light' to chase away darkness and mists, and with genial growing warmth
   to woo life and beauty into our barren world. And so, as it became
   Him,' for the carrying out of the work, to make the Captain of
   Salvation perfect through sufferings,' [1712] so it was needful for
   them that He should veil, even from their view who followed Him, the
   glory of His Divinity and the power of His Kingship, till they had
   learned all that the designation Son of Man' implied, as placed below
   Son of God' and King of Israel.'

   This idea of the Son of Man,' although in its full and prophetic
   meaning, seems to furnish the explanation of the miracle at the
   marriage of Cana. We are now entering on the Ministry of The Son of
   Man,' first and chiefly in its contrast to the preparatory call of the
   Baptist, with the asceticism symbolic of it. We behold Him now as
   freely mingling with humanity, sharing its joys and engagements,
   entering into its family life, sanctioning and hallowing all by His
   Presents and blessing; then as transforming the water of legal
   purification' into the wine of the new dispensation, and, more than
   this, the water of our felt want into the wine of His giving; and,
   lastly, as having absolute power as the Son of Man,' being also the Son
   of God' and the King of Israel.' Not that it is intended to convey,
   that it was the primary purpose of the miracle of Cana to exhibit the
   contrast between His own Ministry and the asceticism of the Baptist,
   although greater could scarcely be imagined than between the wilderness
   and the supply of wine at the marriage-feast. Rather, since this
   essential difference really existed, it naturally appeared at the very
   commencement of Christ's Ministry. [1713] And so in regard to the other
   meaning, also, which this history carries to our minds.

   At the same time it must be borne in mind, that marriage conveyed to
   the Jews much higher thoughts than merely those of festivity and
   merriment. The pious fasted before it, confessing their sins. It was
   regarded almost as a Sacrament. Entrance into the married state was
   thought to carry the forgiveness of sins. [1714] [1715] It almost seems
   as if the relationship of Husband and Bride between Jehovah and His
   people, so frequently insisted upon, not only in the Bible, but in
   Rabbinic writings, had always been standing out in the background. Thus
   the bridal pair on the marriage-day symbolised the union of God with
   Israel. [1716] Hence, though it may in part have been national pride,
   which considered the birth of every Israelite as almost outweighing the
   rest of the world, it scarcely wholly accounts for the ardent
   insistance on marriage, from the first prayer at the circumcision of a
   child, onwards through the many and varied admonitions to the same
   effect. Similarly, it may have been the deep feeling of brotherhood in
   Israel, leading to sympathy with all that most touched the heart, which
   invested with such sacredness participation in the gladness of
   marriage, [1717] or the sadness of burial. To use the bold allegory of
   the times, God Himself had spoken the words of blessing over the cup at
   the union of our first parents, when Michael and Gabriel acted as
   groomsmen, [1718] and the Angelic choir sang the wedding hymn. [1719]
   So also He had shown the example of visiting the sick (in the case of
   Abraham), comforting the mourners (in that of Isaac), and burying the
   dead (in that of Moses). [1720] Every man who met it, was bound to rise
   and join the marriage procession, or the funeral march. It was
   specially related of King Agrippa that he had done this, and a curious
   Haggadah sets forth that, when Jezebel was eaten of dogs, her hands and
   feet were spared, [1721] because, amidst all her wickedness, she had
   been wont to greet every marriage-procession by clapping of hands, and
   to accompany the mourners a certain distance on their way to the
   burying. [1722] And so we also read it, that, in the burying of the
   widow's son of Nain, much people of the city was with her.' [1723]

   In such circumstances, we would naturally expect that all connected
   with marriage was planned with care, so as to bear the impress of
   sanctity, and also to wear the aspect of gladness. [1724] A special
   formality, that of betrothal' (Erusin Qiddushin), preceded the actual
   marriage by a period varying in length, but not exceeding a twelvemonth
   in the case of a maiden. [1725] At the betrothal, the bridegroom,
   personally or by deputy, handed to the bride a piece of money or a
   letter, it being expressly stated in each case that the man thereby
   espoused the woman. From the moment of betrothal both parties were
   regarded, and treated in law (as to inheritance, adultery, need of
   formal divorce), as if they had been actually married, except as
   regarded their living together. A legal document (the Shitré Erusin)
   fixed the dowry which each brought, the mutual obligations, and all
   other legal points. [1726] Generally a festive meal closed the ceremony
   of betrothal - but not in Galilee, where, habits being more simple and
   pure, that which sometimes ended in sin was avoided.

   On the evening of the actual marriage (Nissuin, Chathnuth), the bride
   was led from her paternal home to that of her husband. First came the
   merry sounds of music; then they who distributed among the people wine
   and oil, and nuts among the children; next the bride, covered with the
   bridal veil, her long hair flowing, surrounded by her companions, and
   led by the friends of the bridegroom,' and the children of the
   bride-chamber.' All around were in festive array; some carried torches,
   or lamps on poles; those nearest had myrtle-branches and chaplets of
   flowers. Every one rose to salute the procession, or join it; and it
   was deemed almost a religious duty to break into praise of the beauty,
   the modesty, or the virtues of the bride. Arrived at her new home, she
   was led to her husband. Some such formula as Take her according to the
   Law of Moses and of Israel,' [1727] would be spoken, and the bride and
   bridegroom crowned with garlands. [1728] Then a formal legal
   instrument, called the Kethubah, was signed, [1729] which set forth
   that the bridegroom undertook to work for her, to honour, keep, and
   care for her, [1730] as is the manner of the men of Israel; that he
   promised to give his maiden-wife at least two hundred Zuz [1731] (or
   more it might be), [1732] and to increase her own dowry (which, in the
   case of a poor orphan, the authorities supplied) by at least one half,
   and that he also undertook to lay it out for her to the best advantage,
   all his own possessions being guarantee for it. [1733] Then, after the
   prescribed washing of hands and benediction, the marriage-supper began,
   the cup being filled, and the solemn prayer of bridal benediction
   spoken over it. And so the feast lasted, it might be more than one day,
   while each sought to contribute, sometimes coarsely, [1734] sometimes
   wisely, to the general enjoyment, [1735] till at last the friends of
   the bridegroom' led the bridal pair to the Cheder and the Chuppah, or
   the bridal chamber and bed. Here it ought to be specially noticed, as a
   striking evidence that the writer of the fourth Gospel was not only a
   Hebrew, but intimately acquainted with the varying customs prevailing
   in Galilee and in Judæa, that at the marriage of Cana no friend of the
   bridegroom,' or groomsman' (Shoshebheyna), is mentioned, while he is
   referred to in St. John iii. 29, where the words are spoken outside the
   boundaries of Galilee. For among the simpler and purer Galileans the
   practice of having friends of the bridegroom,' which must so often have
   led to gross impropriety, [1736] did not obtain, [1737] though all the
   invited guests bore the general name of children of the bridechamber'
   (bené Chuppah). [1738]

               It was the marriage in Cana of Galilee. All connected with
   the account of it is strictly Jewish - the feast, the guests, the
   invitation of the stranger Rabbi, and its acceptance by Jesus. Any
   Jewish Rabbi would have gone, but how differently from Him would he
   have spoken and acted! Let us first think of the scenic details of the
   narrative. Strangely, we are not able to fix with certainty the site of
   the little town of Cana. [1739] But if we adopt the most probable
   indentification of it with the modern pleasant village of Kefr Kenna,
   [1740] a few miles north-east of Nazareth, on the road to the Lake of
   Galilee, we picture it to ourselves as on the slope of a hill, its
   houses rising terrace upon terrace, looking north and west over a large
   plain (that of Battauf), and south upon a valley, beyond which the
   hills rise that separate it from Mount Tabor and the plain of Jezreel.
   As we approach the little town through that smiling valley, we come
   upon a fountain of excellent water, around which the village gardens
   and orchards clustered, that produced in great abundance the best
   pomegranates in Palestine. Here was the home of Nathanael-Bartholomew,
   and it seems not unlikely, that with him Jesus had passed the time
   intervening between His arrival and the marriage,' to which His Mother
   had come - the omission of all mention of Joseph leading to the
   supposition, that he had died before that time. The inquiry, what had
   brought Jesus to Cana, seems almost worse than idle, remembering what
   had passed between Him and Nathanael, and what was to happen in the
   first sign,' which was to manifest His glory. It is needless to
   speculate, whether He had known beforehand of the marriage.' But we can
   understand the longing of the Israelite indeed' to have Him under his
   roof, though we can only imagine what the Heavenly Guest, would now
   teach him, and those others who accompanied Him. Nor is there any
   difficulty in understanding, that on His arrival He would hear of this
   marriage,' of the presence of His Mother in what seems to have been the
   house of a friend if not a relative; that Jesus and His disciples would
   be bidden to the feast; and that He resolved not only to comply with
   the request, but to use it as a leave-taking from home and friends -
   similar, though also far other, than that of Elisha, when he entered on
   his mission. Yet it seems deeply significant, that the true Israelite'
   should have been honoured to be the first host of Israel's King.'

   And truly a leave-taking it was for Christ from former friends and home
   - a leave-taking also from His past life. If one part of the narrative
   - that of His dealing with His Mother - has any special meaning, it is
   that of leave-taking, or rather of leaving home and family, just as
   with this first sign' He took leave of all the past. When he had
   returned from His first Temple-visit, it had been in the
   self-exinanition of voluntary humility: to be subject to His Parents.'
   That period was now ended, and a new one had begun - that of active
   consecration of the whole life to His Father's business.' And what
   passed at the marriage-feast marks the beginning of this period. We
   stand on the threshold, over which we pass from the old to the new - to
   use a New Testament figure: to the marriage-supper of the Lamb.

   Viewed in this light, what passed at the marriage in Cana seems like
   taking up the thread, where it had been dropped at the first
   manifestation of His Messianic consciousness. In the Temple at
   Jerusalem He had said in answer to the misapprehensive question of His
   Mother: Wist ye not that I must be about My Father's business?' and now
   when about to take in hand that business,' He tells her so again, and
   decisively, in reply to her misapprehensive suggestion. It is a truth
   which we must ever learn, and yet are ever slow to learn in our
   questionings and suggestings, alike as concerns His dealings with
   ourselves and His rule of His Church, that the highest and only true
   point of view is the Father's business,' not our personal relationship
   to Christ. This thread, then, is taken up again at Cana in the circle
   of friends, as immediately afterwards in His public manifestation, in
   the purifying of the Temple. What He had first uttered as a Child, on
   His first visit to the Temple, that He manifested forth when a Man,
   entering on His active work - negatively, in His reply to His Mother;
   positively, in the sign' He wrought. It all meant: Wist ye not that I
   must be about My Father's business?' And, positively and negatively,
   His first appearance in Jerusalem [1741] meant just the same. For,
   there is ever deepest unity and harmony in that truest Life, the Life
   of Life.

   As we pass through the court of that house in Cana, and reach the
   covered gallery which opens on the various rooms - in this instance,
   particularly, on the great reception room - all is festively adorned.
   In the gallery the servants move about, and there the water-pots' are
   ranged, after the manner of the Jews,' for purification - for the
   washing not only of hands before and after eating, but also of the
   vessels used. [1742] How detailed Rabbinic ordinances were in these
   respects, will be shown in another connection. Purification' was one of
   the main points in Rabbinic sanctity. By far the largest and most
   elaborate [1743] of the six books into which the Mishnah is divided, is
   exclusively devoted to this subject (the Seder Tohoroth,'
   purifications). Not to speak of references in other parts of the
   Talmud, we have two special tractates to instruct us about the
   purification of Hands' (Yadayim) and of Vessels' (Kelim). The latter is
   the most elaborate in all the Mishnah, and consists of not less than
   thirty chapters. Their perusal proves, alike the strict accuracy of the
   Evangelic narratives, and the justice of Christ's denunciations of the
   unreality and gross hypocrisy of this elaborateness of ordinances.
   [1744] This the more so, when we recall that it was actually vaunted as
   a special qualification for a seat in the Sanhedrin, to be so acute and
   learned as to know how to prove clean creeping things (which were
   declared unclean by the Law). [1745] And the mass of the people would
   have regarded neglect of the ordinances of purification as betokening
   either gross ignorance, or daring impiety.

   At any rate, such would not be exhibited on an occasion like the
   present; and outside the reception-room, as St. John with graphic
   minuteness of details relates, six of those stone pots, which we know
   from Rabbinic writings, [1746] were ranged. Here it may be well to add,
   as against objectors, that it is impossible to state with certainty the
   exact measure represented by the two or three firkins apiece.' For,
   although we know that the term metretes (A.V. firkin') was intended as
   an equivalent for the Hebrew bath,' [1747] yet three different kinds of
   bath' were at the time used in Palestine: the common Palestinian or
   wilderness' bath, that of Jerusalem, and that of Sepphoris. [1748] The
   common Palestinian bath' was equal to the Roman amphora, containing
   about 5 ¼ gallons, while the Sepphoris bath' corresponded to the Attic
   metretes, and would contain about 8 ½ gallons. In the former case,
   therefore, each of these pots might have held from 10 ½ to 15 ¾
   gallons; in the latter, from 17 to 25 ½. Reasoning on the general
   ground that the so-called Sepphoris measurement was common in Galilee,
   the larger quantity seems the more likely, though by no means certain.
   It is almost like trifling on the threshold of such a history, and yet
   so many cavils have been raised, that we must here remind ourselves,
   that neither the size, nor the number of these vessels has anything
   extraordinary about it. For such an occasion the family would produce
   or borrow the largest and handsomest stone-vessels that could be
   procured; nor is it necessary to suppose that they were filled to the
   brim; nor should we forget that, from a Talmudic notice, [1749] it
   seems to have been the practiceto set apart some of these vessels
   exclusively for the use of the bride and of the more distinguished
   guests, while the rest were used by the general company.

   Entering the spacious, lofty dining-room, [1750] which would be
   brilliantly lighted with lamps and candlesticks, the guests are
   disposed round tables on couches, soft with cushions or covered with
   tapestry, or seated on chairs. The bridal blessing has been spoken, and
   the bridal cup emptied. The feast is proceeding - not the common meal,
   which was generally taken about even, according to the Rabbinic saying,
   [1751] that he who postponed it beyond that hour was as if he swallowed
   a stone - but a festive evening meal. If there had been disposition to
   those exhibitions of, or incitement to, indecorous and light merriment,
   [1752] such as even the more earnest Rabbis deprecated, surely the
   presence of Jesus would have restrained it. And now there must have
   been a painful pause, or something like it, when the Mother of Jesus
   whispered to Him that the wine failed.' [1753] There could, perhaps, be
   the less cause for reticence on this point towards her Son, not merely
   because this failure may have arisen from the accession of guests in
   the persons of Jesus and his disciples, for whom no provision had been
   originally made, but because the gift of wine or oil on such occasions
   was regarded a meritorious work of charity. [1754]

   But all this still leaves the main incidents in the narrative
   untouched. How are we to understand the implied request of the Mother
   of Jesus? how His reply? and what was the meaning of the miracle? It
   seems scarcely possible to imagine that, remembering the miraculous
   circumstances connected with His Birth, and informed of what had passed
   at Jordan, she now anticipated, and by her suggestion wished to prompt,
   this as His Royal Messianic manifestation. [1755] With reverence be it
   said, such a beginning of Royalty and triumph would have been paltry:
   rather that of the Jewish miracle-monger than that of the Christ of the
   Gospels. Not so, if it was only a sign,' pointing to something beyond
   itself. Again, such anticipations on the part of Mary seem
   psychologically untrue - that is, untrue to her history. She could not,
   indeed, have ever forgotten the circumstances which had surrounded His
   Birth; but the deeper she kept all these things in her heart,' the more
   mysterious would they seem, as time passed in the dull round of the
   most simple and uneventful country-life, and in the discharge of
   every-day duties, without even the faintest appearance of anything
   beyond it. Only twelve years had passed since His Birth, and yet they
   had not understood His saying in the Temple! How much more difficult
   would it be after thirty years, when the Child had grown into Youth and
   Manhood, with still the same silence of Divine Voices around? It is
   difficult to believe in fierce sunshine on the afternoon of a long,
   grey day. Although we have no absolute certainty of it, we have the
   strongest internal reasons for believing, that Jesus had done no
   miracles these thirty years in the home at Nazareth, [1756] but lived
   the life of quiet submission and obedient waiting. That was the then
   part of His Work. It may, indeed, have been that Mary knew of what had
   passed at Jordan; and that, when she saw Him returning with His first
   disciples, who, assuredly, would make no secret of their convictions -
   whatever these may have conveyed to outsiders - she felt that a new
   period in His Life had opened. But what was there in all this to
   suggest such a miracle? and if it had been suggested, why not ask for
   it in express terms, if it was to be the commencement, certainly in
   strangely incongruous circumstances, of a Royal manifestation?

   On the other hand, there was one thing which she had learned, and one
   thing which she was to unlearn, after those thirty years of the
   Nazareth-Life. What she had learned - what she must have learned - was
   absolute confidence in Jesus. What she had to unlearn, was the natural,
   yet entirely mistaken, impression which His meekness, stillness, and
   long home-submission had wrought on her as to His relationship to the
   family. It was, as we find from her after-history, a very hard, very
   slow, and very painful thing to learn it; [1757] yet very needful, not
   only for her own sake, but because it was a lesson of absolute truth.
   And so when she told Him of the want that had arisen, it was simply in
   absolute confidence in her Son, probably without any conscious
   expectancy of a miracle on His part. [1758] Yet not without a touch of
   maternal self-consciousness, almost pride, that He, Whom she could
   trust to do anything that was needed, was her Son, Whom she could
   solicit in the friendly family whose guests they were - and if not for
   her sake, yet at her request. It was a true earth-view to take of their
   relationship; only, an earth-view which must now for ever cease: the
   outcome of His misunderstood meekness and weakness, and which yet,
   strangely enough, the Romish Church puts in the forefront as the most
   powerful plea for Jesus' acting. But the fundamental mistake in what
   she attempted is just this, that she spake as His Mother, and placed
   that maternal relationship in connection with His Work. And therefore
   it was that as, on the first misunderstanding in the Temple, He had
   said: Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?' so now:
   Woman, what have I to do with thee?' With that business' earthly
   relationship, however tender, had no connection. With everything else
   it had, down to the utter self-forgetfulness of that tenderest
   commendation of her to John, in the bitterest agonies of the Cross; but
   not with this. No, not now, nor ever henceforth, with this. As in His
   first manifestation in the Temple, so in this the first manifestation
   of His glory, the finger that pointed to His hour' was not, and could
   not be, that of an earthly parent, but of His Father in Heaven. [1759]
   There was, in truth, a twofold relationship in that Life, of which none
   other but the Christ could have preserved the harmony.

   This is one main point - we had almost called it the negative one; the
   other, and positive one, was the miracle itself. All else is but
   accidental and circumstantial. No one who either knows the use of the
   language, [1760] or remembers that, when commending her to John on the
   Cross, He used the same mode of expression, [1761] will imagine, that
   there was anything derogatory to her, or harsh on His part, in
   addressing her as woman' rather than mother.' But the language is to us
   significant of the teaching intended to be conveyed, and as the
   beginning of this further teaching: Who is My mother? and My brethren?
   And He stretched forth His hand toward His disciples, and said, Behold
   My mother and My brethren!' [1762]

   And Mary did not, and yet she did, understand Him, when she turned to
   the servants with the direction, implicitly to follow His behests. What
   happened is well known: how, in the excess of their zeal, they filled
   the water-pots to the brim - an accidental circumstance, yet useful, as
   much that seems accidental, to show that there could be neither
   delusion nor collusion; how, probably in the drawing of it, the water
   became best wine - the conscious water saw its God, and blushed;' then
   the coarse proverbial joke of what was probably the master of
   ceremonies and purveyor of the feast, [1763] intended, of course, not
   literally to apply to the present company, and yet in its
   accidentalness an evidence of the reality of the miracle; after which
   the narrative abruptly closes with a retrospective remark on the part
   of him who relates it. What the bridegroom said; whether what had been
   done became known to the guests, and, if so, what impression it
   wrought; how long Jesus remained; what His Mother felt - of this and
   much more that might be asked, Scripture, with that reverent reticence
   which we so often mark, in contrast to our shallow talkativeness, takes
   no further notice. And best that it should be so. St. John meant to
   tell us, what the Synoptists, who begin their account with the later
   Galilean ministry, have not recorded, [1764] of the first of His
   miracles as a sign,' [1765] pointing to the deeper and higher that was
   to be revealed, and of the first forth-manifesting of His glory.'
   [1766] That is all; and that object was attained. Witness the calm,
   grateful retrospect upon that first day of miracles, summed up in these
   simple but intensely conscious words: And His disciples believed on
   Him.'

   A sign it was, from whatever point we view its meaning, as previously
   indicated. For, like the diamond that shines with many colours, it has
   many meanings; none of them designed, in the coarse sense of the term,
   but all real, because the outcome of a real Divine Life and history.
   And a real miracle also, not only historically, but as viewed in its
   many meanings; the beginning of all others, which in a sense are but
   the unfolding of this first. A miracle it is, which cannot be
   explained, but is only enhanced by the almost incredible platitudes to
   which negative criticism has sunk in its commentation, [1767] for which
   there assuredly exists no legendary basis, either in Old Testament
   history, or in contemporary Jewish expectation; [1768] which cannot be
   sublimated into nineteenth-century idealism; [1769] least of all can be
   conceived as an after-thought of His disciples, invented by an Ephesian
   writer of the second century. [1770] But even the allegorical
   illustration of St. Augustine, who reminds us that in the grape the
   water of rain is ever changed into wine, is scarcely true, save as a
   bare illustration, and only lowers our view of the miracle. For miracle
   it is, [1771] and will ever remain; not, indeed, magic, [1772] nor
   arbitrary power, but power with a moral purpose, and that the highest.
   [1773] And we believe it, because this sign' is the first of all those
   miracles in which the Miracle of Miracles gave a sign,' and manifested
   forth His glory - the glory of His Person, the glory of His Purpose,
   and the glory of His Work.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [1710] St. John i 51.

   [1711] For a full discussion of that most important and significant
   appellation Son of Man,' comp.  Lücke, u. s. pp. 459-466; Godet (German
   transl.) pp. 104-108; and especially Westcott, pp. 33-35. The main
   point is here first to ascertain the Old Testament import of the title,
   and then to view it as present to later Jewish thinking in the
   Pseudepigraphic writings (Book of Enoch). Finally, its full realisation
   must be studied in the Gospel-history.

   [1712] Hebr. ii. 10.

   [1713] We may, however, here again notice that, if this narrative had
   been fictitious, it would seem most clumsily put together. To introduce
   the Forerunner with fasting, and as an ascetic, and Him to Whom he
   pointed with a marriage-feast, is an incongruity which no writer of a
   legend would have perpetrated. But the writer of the fourth Gospel does
   not seem conscious of any incongruity, and this because he has no ideal
   story nor characters to introduce. In this sense it may be said, that
   the introduction of the story of the marriage-feast of Cana is in
   itself the best proof of its truthfulness, and of the miracle which it
   records.

   [1714] Yalkut on 1 Sam. xiii. 1 vol ii. p. 16 d.

   [1715] The Biblical proofs adduced for attaching this benefit to a
   sage, a bridegroom, and a prince on entering on their new state, are
   certainly peculiar. In the case of a bridegroom it is based on the name
   of Esau's bride, Machalath (Gen. xxviii. 9), a name which is derived
   from the Rabbinic Machal,' to forgive. In Jer. Biccur. iii. p. 65 d,
   where this is also related, it is pointed out that the original name of
   Esau's wife had been Basemath (Gen. xxxvi. 3), the name Machalath,
   therefore, having been given when Esau married.

   [1716] In Yalcut on Is. lxi. 10 (vol. ii. p. 57 d Israel is said to
   have been ten times called in Scripture bride' (six times in Canticles,
   three times in Isaiah, and once in Jeremiah). Attention is also called
   to the ten garments' with which successively the Holy One arrayed
   Himself; to the symbolic priestly dignity of the bridegroom, &c.

   [1717] Everything, even a funeral, had to give way to a
   marriage-procession.

   [1718] Ber. R. 8.

   [1719] Ab. de R. Nath. iv.

   [1720] Sot. 14 a.

   [1721] 2 Kings. ix. 35.

   [1722] Yalkut on 2 Kings ix 35, vol. ii. p. 36 a and b.

   [1723] St. Luke vii. 12.

   [1724] For details I must refer to the Encyclopædias, to the article in
   Cassell's Bible Educator,' and to the corresponding chapters in
   Sketches of Jewish Social Life.'

   [1725] Pesiq. R. 15 applies the first clause of Prov. xiii. 12 to a
   long engagement, the second to a short one.

   [1726] The reader who is curious to see these and other legal documents
   in extenso, is referred to Dr. Sammter's ed. of the tractate Baba
   Metsia (notes at the end, fol. pp. 144-148).

   [1727] Jer. Yeb. Md.

   [1728] Some of these joyous demonstrations, such as the wearing of
   crowns, and even the bridal music, were for a time prohibited after the
   destruction of Jerusalem, in token of national mourning (Sot. ix. 14).
   On these crowns comp. Wagenseil, Sota, pp. 965-967.

   [1729] Comp. Tob. vii. 14.

   [1730] I quote the very words of the formula, which, it will be
   noticed, closely agree with those in our own Marriage Service.

   [1731] If the Zuz be reckoned at 7d., about 5l. 16s. 8d.

   [1732] This, of course, represents only the minimum. In the case of a
   priest's daughter the ordinary legal minimum was doubled.

   [1733] The Talmud (Tos. Kethub.) here puts the not inapt question, How
   if the bridegroom has no goods and chattels?' but ultimately comforts
   itself with the thought that every man has some property, if it were
   only the six feet of ground in which he is to be buried.

   [1734] Not a few such instances of riotous merriment, and even dubious
   jokes, on the part of the greatest Rabbis are mentioned, to check which
   some were wont to adopt the curious device of breaking valuable vases,
   &c.

   [1735] Comp. Ber. 6 b.

   [1736] Comp. Kethub. 12 a; Jer. Kethub, i. p. 25 a.

   [1737] This, and the other great differences in favour of morality and
   decency which distinguished the customs of Galilee from those of the
   rest of Palestine, are enumerated in Jer. Kethub. i. 1, p. 25 a, about
   the middle.

   [1738] Comp. St. Matt. ix. 15.

   [1739] Two such sites have been proposed, that by Dr. Robinson being
   very unlikely to represent the ancient Cana of Galilee.'

   [1740] Comp. the memoir on the subject by Zeller in the Quarterly
   Report of the Palestine Explor. Fund (for 1869, No. iii., and for April
   1878, by Mr. Hepworth Dixon); and Lieut. Conder, Tent-Work in
   Palestine, vol. i. pp. 150-155. Zeller makes it five miles from
   Nazareth, Conder only three and three-quarters.

   [1741] St. John ii. 13-17, and vv. 18-23.

   [1742] Comp. St. Mark vii. 1-4.

   [1743] The whole Mishnah is divided into six Sedarim (Orders), of which
   the last is the Seder Tohoroth, treating of purifications.' It consists
   of twelve tractates (Massikhtoth), 126 chapters (Peraqim), and contains
   no fewer than 1001 separate Mishnayoth (the next largest Seder -
   Neziqin - contains 689 Mishnayoth). The first tractate in this Order of
   Purifications' treats of the purification of vessels (Kelim), and
   contains no fewer than thirty chapters; Yadayim' (hands') is the
   eleventh tractate, and contains four chapters.

   [1744] Comp. St. Mark vii. 2-5; St. Matt. xxiii. 25, 26; St. Luke xi.
   38, 39.

   [1745] Sanh. 17 a.

   [1746] These stone-vessels' (Keley Abhanim) are often spoken of (for
   example, Chel. x. 1). In Yaday. i. 2 they are expressly mentioned for
   the purification of the hands.

   [1747] Jos. Ant. viii. 2. 9.

   [1748] For further details we refer to the excursus on Palestinian
   money, weights, and measures, in Herzfeld's Handelsgesch. d. Juden, pp.
   171-185.

   [1749] Shabb. 77 b. So Lightfoot in loc.

   [1750] The Teraqlin, from which the other side-rooms opened (Jer. Rosh
   haSh. 59 b; Yoma 15 b). From Baba B. vi. 4 we learn, that such an
   apartment was at least 15 feet square and 15 feet high. Height of
   ceiling was characteristic of Palestinian houses. It was always half
   the breadth and length put together. Thus, in a small house consisting
   of one room: length, 12 feet, breadth, 9 feet, the height would be 10 ½
   feet. In a large house: length, 15 feet, breadth, 12 feet, the height
   would be 13 ½ feet. From Jer. Kethub. p. 28 d we learn, that the bride
   was considered as actually married the moment she had entered the
   Teraqlin, before she had actually gone to the Chuppah.

   [1751] Pas. 18 b.

   [1752] Thus it was customary, and deemed meritorious, to sing and
   perform a kind of play with myrtle branches (Jer. Peah 15 d); although
   one Rabbi was visited with sudden death for excess in this respect.

   [1753] St. John ii. 3, A.V.: when they wanted wine.'

   [1754] Baba B ix.

   [1755] This is the view of many commentators, ancient and modern.

   [1756] Tholuck and  Lücke, however, hold the opposite view.

   [1757] Luthardt rightly calls it the commencement of a very painful
   education, of which the next stage is marked in St. Luke viii. 19, and
   the last in St. John xix. 26.

   [1758] This meets the objection of Strauss and others, that Mary could
   not have expected a miracle. It is scarcely conceivable, how Calvin
   could have imagined that Mary had intended Jesus to deliver an address
   with the view of turning away thought from the want of wine; or Bengel,
   that she intended to give a hint that the company should break up.

   [1759] Godet aptly says. His motto henceforth is: My Father and I.'

   [1760] Comp. the passages from the classics quoted by Wetstein in his
   Commentary.

   [1761] St. John xix. 26.

   [1762] St. Matt xii. 46-50.

   [1763] Ecclus. xxxii. 1 2.

   [1764] On the omission of certain parts of St. John's narrative by the
   Synoptists, and vice versâ, and on the supposed differences, I can do
   no better than refer the reader to the admirable remarks of Canon
   Westcott, Introduction to the Study of the Gospels, pp. 280 &c.

   [1765] According to the best reading, and literally, This did -
   beginning of signs - Jesus in Cana.' Upon a careful review the Rabbinic
   expression Simana (taken from the Greek word here used) would seem to
   me more fully to render the idea than the Hebrew Oth. But the
   significant use of the word sign should be well marked. See Canon
   Westcott on the passage.

   [1766] In this, the first of his miracles, it was all the more
   necessary that He should manifest his glory.

   [1767] Thus Schenkel regards Christ's answer to Mary as a proof that He
   was not on good terms with His family; Paulus suggests, that Jesus had
   brought the wine, and that it was afterwards mixed with the water in
   the stone-vessels; Gfrörer, that Mary had brought it as a present, and
   at the feast given Jesus the appropriate hint when to have it set on.
   The gloss of Renan seems to me even more untenable and repulsive.

   [1768] Against this view of Strauss, see  Lücke, u. s. p. 477.

   [1769] So Lange, in his Life of Christ,' imagining that converse with
   Jesus had put all in that higher ecstasy in which He gave them to drink
   from the fulness of Himself. Similar spiritualisation - though by each
   in his own manner - has been attempted by Baur, Keim, Ewald,
   Hilgenfeld, and others. But it seems more rational, with Schweizer and
   Weisse, to deny the historical accuracy of the whole, than to resort to
   such expedients.

   [1770] Hilgenfeld, however, sees in this miracle an evidence that the
   Christ of the fourth Gospel proclaimed another and a higher than the
   God of the Old Testament - in short, evidence of the Gnostic taint of
   the fourth Gospel.

   [1771] Meyer well reminds us that physical incomprehensibility is not
   identical with absolute impossibility.'

   [1772] Godet has scarcely rightly marked the difference.

   [1773] If I rightly understand the meaning of Dr. Abbott's remarks on
   the miracles in the fourth Gospel (Encycl. Britan. vol. x. p. 825 b),
   they imply that the change of the water into wine was an emblematic
   reference to the Eucharistic wine, this view being supported by a
   reference to 1 John v. 8. But could this be considered sufficient
   ground for the inference, that no historic reality attaches to the
   whole history? In that case it would have to be seriously maintained,
   that an Ephesian writer at the end of the second century had invented
   the fiction of the miraculous change of water into wine, for the
   purpose of certain Eucharistic teaching!
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER V.
THE CLEANSING OF THE TEMPLE - THE SIGN,' WHICH IS NOT A SIGN.

   (St. John ii. 13-25.)

   It has been said that Mary understood, and yet did not understand
   Jesus. And of this there seems fresh evidence in the circumstance that,
   immediately after the marriage of Cana, she and the brethren of Jesus'
   went with Him, or followed Him, to Capernaum, which henceforth became
   His own city,' [1774] during His stay by the Lake of Galilee. The
   question, whether He had first returned to Nazareth, seems almost
   trifling. It may have been so, and it may be that His brothers had
   joined Him there, while His sisters,' being married, remained at
   Nazareth. [1775] For the departure of the family from Nazareth many
   reasons will, in the peculiar circumstances, suggest themselves. And
   yet one feels, that their following Jesus and His disciples to their
   new home had something to do with their understanding, and yet not
   understanding, of Him, which had been characteristic of Mary's silent
   withdrawal after the reply she had received at the feast of Cana, and
   her significant direction to the servants, implicitly to do what He
   bade them. Equally in character is the willingness of Jesus to allow
   His family to join Him - not ashamed of their humbleness, as a Jewish
   Messiah might have been, nor impatient of their ignorance: tenderly
   near to them, in all that concerned the humanness of His feelings;
   sublimely far from them, in all connected with His Work and Mission.

   It is almost a relief to turn from the long discussion (to which
   reference has already been made): whether those who bore that
   designation were His brothers' and sisters' in the real sense, or the
   children of Joseph by an earlier marriage, or else His cousins - and to
   leave it in the indefiniteness which rests upon it. [1776] But the
   observant reader will probably mark, in connection with this
   controversy, that it is, to say the least, strange that brothers' of
   Jesus should, without further explanation, have been introduced in the
   fourth Gospel, if it was an Ephesian production, if not a fiction of
   spiritualistic tendency; strange also, that the fourth Gospel alone
   should have recorded the removal to Capernaum of the mother and
   brothers' of Jesus, in company with Him. But this by the way, and in
   reference to recent controversies about the authorship of the fourth
   Gospel.

   If we could only feel quite sure - and not merely deem it most probable
   - that the Tell Hûm of modern exploration marks the site of the ancient
   Capernaum, Kephar Nachum, or Tanchumin (the latter, perhaps, village of
   consolation'), with what solemn interest would we wander over its
   ruins. [1777] We know it from New Testament history, and from the
   writings of Josephus. [1778] A rancorous notice and certain vile
   insinuations [1779] of the Rabbis, [1780] connecting it with heresy,'
   presumably that of Christianity, seem also to point to Kephar Nachum as
   the home of Jesus, where so many of His miracles were done. At the time
   it could have been of only recent origin, since its Synagogue had but
   lately been reared, through the friendly liberality of that true and
   faithful Centurion. [1781] But already its importance was such, that it
   had become the station of a garrison, and of one of the principal
   custom-houses. Its soft, sweet air, by the glorious Lake of Galilee,
   with snow-capped Hermon full in view in the North - from a distance,
   like Mount Blanc over the Lake of Geneva; [1782] the fertility of the
   country - notably of the plain of Gennesaret close by; and the merry
   babble, and fertilising proximity of a spring which, from its teeming
   with fish like that of the Nile, was popularly regarded as springing
   from the river of Egypt - this and more must have made Capernaum one of
   the most delightful places in these Gardens of Princes,' as the Rabbis
   interpreted the word Gennesaret,' by the cither-shaped lake' of that
   name. [1783] The town lay quite up on its north-western shore, only two
   miles from where the Jordan falls into the lake. As we wander over that
   field of ruins, about half a mile in length by a quarter in breadth,
   which in all probability mark the site of ancient Capernaum, we can
   scarcely realise it, that the desolateness all around has taken the
   place of the life and beauty of eighteen centuries ago. Yet the scene
   is the same, though the breath of judgement has long swept the
   freshness from its face. Here lies in unruffled stillness, or wildly
   surges, lashed by sudden storms, the deep blue lake, 600 or 700 feet
   below the level of the Mediterranean. We can look up and down its
   extent, about twelve miles, or across it, about six miles. Right over
   on the other side from where we stand - somewhere there, is the place
   where Jesus miraculously fed the five thousand. Over here came the
   little ship, its timbers still trembling, and its sides and deck wet
   with the spray of that awful night of storm, when He came to the weary
   rowers, and brought with Him calm. Up that beach they drew the boat.
   Here, close by the shore, stood the Synagogue, built of white limestone
   on dark basalt foundation. North of it, up the gentle slopes, stretched
   the town. East and south is the lake, in almost continuous succession
   of lovely small bays, of which more than seventeen may be counted
   within six miles, and in one of which nestled Capernaum. All its houses
   are gone, scarce one stone left on the other: the good Centurion's
   house, that of Matthew the publican, [1784] that of Simon Peter, [1785]
   the temporary home which first sheltered the Master and His loved ones.
   All are unrecognisable - a confused mass of ruins - save only that
   white Synagogue in which He taught. From its ruins we can still measure
   its dimensions, and trace its fallen pillars; nay, we discover over the
   lintel of its entrance the device of a pot of manna, which may have
   lent its form to His teaching there [1786] - a device different from
   that of the seven-branched candlestick, or that other most significant
   one of the Paschal Lamb, which seem to have been so frequent over the
   Synagogues in Galilee. [1787]

   And this then, is Capernaum - the first and the chief home of Jesus,
   when He had entered on His active work. But, on this occasion, He
   continued there not many days.' For, already, the Jews' Passover was at
   hand,' and He must needs keep that feast in Jerusalem. If our former
   computations are right - and, in the nature of things, it is impossible
   to be absolutely certain about exact dates - and John began his
   preaching in the autumn of the year 779 from the building of Rome, or
   in 26 of our present reckoning, while Jesus was baptized in the early
   winter following, [1788] [1789] then this Passover must have taken
   place in the spring (about April) of the same year. [1790] The
   preparations for it had, indeed, commenced a month before. Not to speak
   of the needful domestic arrangements for the journey of pilgrims to
   Jerusalem, the whole land seemed in a state of preparation. A month
   before the feast (on the 15th Adar) bridges and roads were put in
   repair, and sepulchres whitened, to prevent accidental pollution to the
   pilgrims. Then, some would select this out of the three great annual
   feasts for the tithing of their flocks and herds, which, in such case,
   had to be done two weeks before the Passover; while others would fix on
   it as the time for going up to Jerusalem before the feast to purify
   themselves' [1791] -  that is, to undergo the prescribed purification
   in any case of Levitical defilement. But what must have appealed to
   every one in the land was the appearance of the money-changers'
   (Shulchanim), who opened their stalls in every country-town on the 15th
   of Adar (just a month before the feast). They were, no doubt, regularly
   accredited and duly authorised. For, all Jews and proselytes - women,
   slaves, and minors excepted - had to pay the annual Temple-tribute of
   half a shekel, according to the sacred' standard, equal to a common
   Galilean shekel (two denars), or about 1s. 2d. of our money. From this
   tax many of the priests - to the chagrin of the Rabbis - claimed
   exemption, on the ingenious plea that in Lev. vi. 23 (A.V.) every
   offering of a priest was ordered to be burnt, and not eaten; while from
   the Temple-tribute such offerings were paid for as the two wave loaves
   and the shewbread, which were afterwards eaten by priests. Hence, it
   was argued, their payment of Temple-tribute would have been
   incompatible with Lev. vi. 23!

   But to return. This Temple-tribute had to be paid in exact half-shekels
   of the Sanctuary, or ordinary Galilean shekels. When it is remembered
   that, besides strictly Palestinian silver and especially copper coin,
   [1792] Persian, Tyrian, Syrian, Egyptian, Grecian, and Roman money
   circulated in the country, it will be understood what work these
   money-changers' must have had. From the 15th to the 25th Adar they had
   stalls in every country-town. On the latter date, which must therefore
   be considered as marking the first arrivals of festive pilgrims in the
   city, the stalls in the country were closed, and the money-changers
   henceforth sat within the precincts of the Temple. All who refused to
   pay the Temple-tribute (except priests) were liable to distraint of
   their goods. The money-changers' made a statutory fixed charge of a
   Maah, or from 1½d. to 2d. [1793] (or, according to others, of half a
   maah) on every half-shekel. This was called qolbon. But if a person
   tendered a Sela (a four-denar piece, in value two half-shekels of the
   Sanctuary, or two Galilean shekels), he had to pay double qolbon; one
   for his half-shekel of tribute-money, the other for his change.
   Although not only priests, but all other non-obligatory officers, and
   those who paid for their poorer brethren, were exempted from the charge
   of qolbon, it must have brought in an immense revenue, since not only
   many native Palestinians might come without the statutory coin, but a
   vast number of foreign Jews presented themselves on such occasions in
   the Temple. Indeed, if we compute the annual Temple-tribute at about
   75,000l., the bankers' profits may have amounted to from 8,000l. to
   9,000l., an immense sum in the circumstances of the country. [1794]

   But even this does not represent all the facts of the case. We have
   already seen, that the money-changers' in the Temple gave change, when
   larger amounts than were equivalent to the Temple-tribute were
   proffered. It is a reasonable, nay, an almost necessary inference, that
   many of the foreign Jews arriving in Jerusalem would take the
   opportunity of changing at these tables their foreign money, and for
   this, of course, fresh charges would be made. For, there was a great
   deal to be bought within the Temple-area, needful for the feast (in the
   way of sacrifices and their adjuncts), or for purification, and it
   would be better to get the right money from the authorised changers,
   than have disputes with the dealers. We can picture to ourselves the
   scene around the table of an Eastern money-changer - the weighing of
   the coins, deductions for loss of weight, arguing, disputing,
   bargaining - and we can realise the terrible truthfulness of our Lord's
   charge that they had made the Father's House a mart and place of
   traffic. But even so, the business of the Temple money-changers would
   not be exhausted. Through their hands would pass the immense votive
   offerings of foreign Jews, or of proselytes, to the Temple; indeed,
   they probably transacted all business matters connected with the
   Sanctuary. It is difficult to realise the vast accumulation of wealth
   in the Temple-treasury. But some idea of it may be formed from the
   circumstance that, despite many previous spoliations, the value of the
   gold and silver which Crassus [1795] carried from the Temple-treasury
   amounted to the enormous sum of about two and a half millions sterling.
   Whether or not these Temple money-changers may have transacted other
   banking business, given drafts, or cashed those from correspondents,
   received and lent money at interest - all which was common at the time
   - must remain undetermined.

   Readers of the New Testament know, that the noisy and incongruous
   business of an Eastern money-lender was not the only one carried on
   within the sacred Temple-enclosure. It was a great accommodation, that
   a person bringing a sacrifice might not only learn, but actually
   obtain, in the Temple from its officials what was required for the
   meat, and drink-offering. The prices were fixed by tariff every month,
   and on payment of the stated amount the offerer received one of four
   counterfoils, which respectively indicated, and, on handing it to the
   proper official, procured the prescribed complement of his sacrifice.
   [1796] The Priests and Levites in charge of this made up their accounts
   every evening, and these (though necessary) transactions must have left
   a considerable margin of profit to the treasury. This would soon lead
   to another kind of traffic. Offerers might, of course, bring their
   sacrificial animals with them, and we know that on the Mount of Olives
   there were four shops, specially for the sale of pigeons and other
   things requisite for sacrificial purposes. [1797] [1798] But then, when
   an animal was brought, it had to be examined as to its Levitical
   fitness by persons regularly qualified and appointed. Disputes might
   here arise, due to the ignorance of the purchaser, or the greed of the
   examiner. A regularly qualified examiner was called mumcheh (one
   approved), and how much labour was given to the acquisition of the
   requisite knowledge appears from the circumstance, that a certain
   teacher is said to have spent eighteen months with a farmer, to learn
   what faults in an animal were temporary, and which permanent. [1799]
   Now, as we are informed that a certain mumcheh of firstlings had been
   authorised to charge for his inspection from four to six Isar (1¼d. to
   about 2d.), according to the animal inspected, [1800] it is but
   reasonable to suppose that a similar fee may have been exacted for
   examining the ordinary sacrificial animals. But all trouble and
   difficulty would be avoided by a regular market within the
   Temple-enclosure, where sacrificial animals could be purchased, having
   presumably been duly inspected, and all fees paid before being offered
   for sale. [1801] It needs no comment to show how utterly the Temple
   would be profaned by such traffic, and to what scenes it might lead.
   From Jewish writings we know, that most improper transactions were
   carried on, to the taking undue advantage of the poor people who came
   to offer their sacrifices. Thus we read, [1802] that on one occasion
   the price of a couple of pigeons was run up to the enormous figure of a
   gold denar (a Roman gold denar, about 15s. 3d.), when, through the
   intervention of Simeon, the grandson of the great Hillel, it was
   brought down before night to a quarter of a silver denar, or about 2d.
   each. Since Simeon is represented as introducing his resolve to this
   effect with the adjuration, by the Temple,' it is not unfair to infer
   that these prices had ruled within the sacred enclosure. It was
   probably not merely controvesial zeal for the peculiar teaching of his
   master Shammai, but a motive similar to that of Simeon, which on
   another occasion induced Baba ben Buta (well known as giving Herod the
   advice of rebuilding the Temple), when he found the Temple-court empty
   of sacrificial animals, through the greed of those who had thus
   desolated the House of God,' to bring in no less than three thousand
   sheep, so that the people might offer sacrifices. [1803] [1804]

   This leads up to another question, most important in this connection.
   The whole of this traffic - money-changing, selling of doves, and
   market for sheep and oxen - was in itself, and from its attendant
   circumstances, a terrible desecration; it was also liable to gross
   abuses. But was there about the time of Christ anything to make it
   specially obnoxious and unpopular? The priesthood must always have
   derived considerable profit from it - of course, not the ordinary
   priests, who came up in their orders' to minister in the Temple, but
   the permanent priestly officials, the resident leaders of the
   priesthood, and especially the High-Priestly family. This opens up a
   most interesting inquiry, closely connected, as we shall show, with
   Christ's visit to the Temple at this Passover. But the materials here
   at our command are so disjointed, that, in attempting to put them
   together, we can only suggest what seems most probable, not state what
   is absolutely certain. What became of the profits of the
   money-changers, and who were the real owners of the Temple-market?

   To the first of these questions the Jerusalem Talmud [1805] gives no
   less than five different answers, showing that there was no fixed rule
   as to the employment of these profits, or, at least, that it was no
   longer known at that time. Although four of these answers point to
   their use for the public service, yet that which seems most likely
   assigns the whole profits to the money-changers themselves. But in that
   case it can scarcely be doubted, that they had to pay a considerable
   rental or percentage to the leading Temple-officials. The profits from
   the sale of meat- and drink-offerings went to the Temple-treasury. But
   it can hardly be believed, that such was the case in regard to the
   Temple-market. On the other hand, there can be little doubt, that this
   market was what in Rabbinic writings is styled the Bazaars of the sons
   of Annas' (Chanuyoth beney Chanan), the sons of that High-Priest Annas,
   who is so infamous in New Testament history. When we read that the
   Sanhedrin, forty years before the destruction of Jerusalem, transferred
   its meeting-place from the Hall of Hewn Stones' (on the south side of
   the Court of the Priest, and therefore partly within the Sanctuary
   itself) to the Bazaars,' and then afterwards to the City, [1806] the
   inference is plain, that these Bazaars were those of the sons of Annas
   the High-Priest, and that they occupied part of the Temple-court; in
   short, that the Temple-market and the Bazaars of the sons of Annas are
   identical.

   If this inference, which is in accordance with received Jewish opinion,
   be admitted, we gain much light as regards the purification of the
   Temple by Jesus, and the words which He spake on that occasion. For,
   our next position is that, from the unrighteousness of the traffic
   carried on in these Bazaars, and the greed of their owners, the
   Temple-market' was at the time most unpopular. This appears, not only
   from the conduct and words of the patriarch Simeon and of Baba ben Buta
   (as above quoted), but from the fact that popular indignation, three
   years before the destruction of Jerusalem, swept away the Bazaars of
   the family of Annas, [1807] and this, as expressly stated, on account
   of the sinful greed which characterised their dealings. And if any
   doubt should still linger in the mind, it would surely be removed by
   our Lord's open denunciation of the Temple-market as a den of robbers.'
   [1808] Of the avarice and corruption of this High-Priestly family,
   alike Josephus and the Rabbis give a most terrible picture. Josephus
   describes Annas (or Ananus), the son of the Annas of the New Testament,
   as a great hoarder up of money,' very rich, and as despoiling by open
   violence the common priests of their official revenues. [1809] The
   Talmud also records the curse which a distinguished Rabbi of Jerusalem
   (Abba Shaul) pronounced upon the High-Priestly families (including that
   of Annas), who were themselves High-Priests, their sons treasurers
   (Gizbarin), their sons-in-law assistant-treasurers (Ammarkalin), while
   their servants beat the people with sticks.' [1810] What a comment this
   passage offers on the bearing of Jesus, as He made a scourge to drive
   out the very servants who beat the people with sticks,' and upset their
   unholy traffic! It were easy to add from Rabbinic sources repulsive
   details of their luxuriousness, wastefulness, gluttony, and general
   dissoluteness. No wonder that, in the figurative language of the
   Talmud, the Temple is represented as crying out against them: Go hence,
   ye sons of Eli, ye defile the Temple of Jehovah!' [1811] These painful
   notices of the state of matters at that time help us better to
   understand what Christ did, and who they were that opposed His doing.

   These Temple-Bazaars, the property, and one of the principal sources of
   income, of the family of Annas, were the scene of the purification of
   the Temple by Jesus; and in the private locale attached to these very
   Bazaars, where the Sanhedrin held its meetings at the time, the final
   condemnation of Jesus may have been planned, if not actually
   pronounced. All this has its deep significance. But we can now also
   understand why the Temple officials, to whom these Bazaars belonged,
   only challenged the authority of Christ in thus purging the Temple. The
   unpopularity of the whole traffic, if not their consciences, prevented
   their proceeding to actual violence. Lastly, we can also better
   perceive the significance, alike of Christ's action, and of His reply
   to their challenge, spoken as it was close to the spot where He was so
   soon to be condemned by them. Nor do we any longer wonder that no
   resistance was offered by the people to the action of Jesus, and that
   even the remonstrances of the priests were not direct, but in the form
   of a perplexing question.

   For it is in the direction just indicated, and in no other, that
   objections have been raised to the narrative of Christ's first public
   act in Jerusalem: the purgation of the Temple. Commentators have
   sufficiently pointed out the differences between this and the purgation
   of the Temple at the close of His Ministry. [1812] [1813] Indeed, on
   comparison, these are so obvious, that every reader can mark them. Nor
   does it seem difficult to understand, rather does it seem not only
   fitting, but almost logically necessary, that, if any such event had
   occurred, it should have taken place both at the beginning and at the
   close of His public ministry in the Temple. Nor yet is there anything
   either abrupt' or tactless' in such a commencement of his Ministry. It
   is not only profane, but unhistorical, to look for calculation and
   policy in the Life of Jesus. Had there been such, He would not have
   died on the Cross. And abrupt' it certainly was not. Jesus took up the
   thread where he had dropped it on His first recorded appearance in the
   Temple, when he had spoken His wonder, that those who knew Him should
   have been ignorant, that He must be about His Father's business. He was
   now about His Father's business, and, as we may so say, in the most
   elementary manner. To put an end to this desecration of His Father's
   House, which, by a nefarious traffic, had been made a place of mart,
   nay, a den of robbers,' was, what all who knew Mis Mission must have
   felt, a most suitable and almost necessary beginning of His Messianic
   Work.

   And many of those present must have known Jesus. The zeal of His early
   disciples, who, on their first recognition of Him, proclaimed the
   new-found Messiah, could not have given place to absolute silence. The
   many Galilean pilgrims in the Temple could not but have spread the
   tidings, and the report must soon have passed from one to the other in
   the Temple-courts, as He first entered their sacred enclosure. They
   would follow Him, and watch what He did. Nor were they disappointed. He
   inaugurated His Mission by fulfilling the prediction concerning Him Who
   was to be Israel's refiner and purifier (Mal. iii. 1-3). Scarce had He
   entered the Temple-porch, and trod the Court of the Gentiles, than He
   drove thence what profanely defiled it. [1814] There was not a hand
   lifted, not a word spoken to arrest Him, as He made the scourage of
   small cords (even this not without significance) and with it drove out
   of the Temple both the sheep and the oxen; not a word said, nor a hand
   raised, as He poured into their receptacles the changers' money, and
   overthrew their tables. [1815] His Presence awed them, His words
   awakened even their consciences; they knew, only too well, how true His
   denunciations were. And behind Him was gathered the wondering
   multitude, that could not but sympathise with such bold, right royal,
   and Messianic vindication of Temple sanctity from the nefarious traffic
   of a hated, corrupt, and avaricious Priesthood. It was a scene worth
   witnessing by any true Israelite, a protest and an act which, even
   among a less emotional people, would have gained Him respect,
   approbation, and admiration, and which, at any rate, secured his
   safety. [1816]

   For when the Jews,' by which here, as in so many other places, we are
   to understand the rulers of the people - in this instance, the Temple
   officials - did gather courage to come forward, they ventured not to
   lay hands on Him. It was not yet the time for it. In presence of that
   multitude they would not then have dared it, even if policy had not
   dictated quietness within the Temple-enclosure, when the Roman garrison
   so close by, in Fort Antonia, kept jealous watch for the first
   appearance of a tumult. [1817] Still more strangely, they did not even
   reprove Him for what He had done, as if it had been wrong or improper.
   With infinite cunning, as appealing to the multitude, they only asked
   for a sign' which would warrant such assumption of authority. But this
   question of challenge marked two things: the essential opposition
   between the Jewish authorities and Jesus, and the manner in which they
   would carry on the contest, which was henceforth to be waged between
   Him and the rulers of the people. That first action of Jesus determined
   their mutual positions; and with and in that first conflict its end was
   already involved. The action of Jesus as against the rulers must
   develop into a life-opposition; their first step against Him must lead
   on to the last in His condemnation to the Cross.

   And Jesus then and there knew it all, foresaw, or rather saw it all.
   His answer told it. It was - as all His teaching to those who seeing do
   not see, and hearing do not hear, whose understanding is darkened and
   heart hardened - in parabolic language, which only the after-event
   would make clear. [1818] As for the sign,' then and ever again sought
   by an evil and adulterous generation' - evil in their thoughts and ways
   and adulterous to the God of Israel - He had then, as afterwards,
   [1819] only one sign' to give: Destroy this Temple, and in three days I
   will raise it up.' Thus He met their challenge for a sign by the
   challenge of a sign: Crucify Him, and He would rise again; let them
   suppress the Christ, He would triumph. [1820] A sign this which they
   understood not, but misunderstood, and by making it the ground of their
   false charge in His final trial, themselves unwittingly fulfilled.

   And yet to all time this is the sign, and the only sign, which the
   Christ has given, which He still gives to every evil and adulterous
   generation,' to all sin-lovers and God-forsakers. They will destroy, so
   far as their power reaches, the Christ, crucify Him, give His words the
   lie, suppress, sweep away Christianity - and they shall not succeed: He
   shall triumph. As on that first Easter-day, so now and ever in history,
   He raises up the Temple, which they break down. This is the sign,' the
   evidence, the only sign,' which the Christ gives to His enemies; a sign
   which, as an historical fact, has been patent to all men, and seen by
   them; which might have been evidence, but being of the nature of
   miracle, not explicable by natural agencies, they have misunderstood,
   viewing the Temple' merely as a building, of which they fully know the
   architecture, manner, and time of construction, [1821] but of whose
   spiritual character and upbuilding they have no knowledge nor thought.
   And thus, as to that generation, so to all which have followed, this is
   stil the sign,' if they understand it - the only sign, the Great
   Miracle, which, as they only calculate from the visible and to them
   ascertained, these despiser behold, and wonder, and perish,' for He
   worketh a work in their days, a work which they shall in no wise
   believe.' [1822]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [1774] St. Matt. iv. 13; ix. 1; St. Mark ii. 1.

   [1775] St. Mark vi. 3.

   [1776] In support of the natural interpretation of these terms (which I
   frankly own to be my view) not only St. Matt. i. 25 and St. Luke ii. 7
   may be urged, but these two questions may be put, suggested by
   Archdeacon Norris (who himself holds them to have been the children of
   Joseph by a former marriage): How could our Lord have been, through
   Joseph, the heir of David's throne (according to the genealogies), if
   Joseph had elder sons? And again, What became of the six young
   motherless children when Joseph and the Virgin went first to Bethlehem,
   and then into Egypt, and why are the elder sons not mentioned on the
   occasion of the visit to the Temple? (Commentary on the New Testament,
   vol. i. p. 117.)

   [1777] Robinson, Sepp, and, if I understand him aright, Lieut. Conder,
   regard Khan Minyeh (Tent-Work in Palest. vol. ii. pp. 182 &c.) as the
   site of Capernaum; but most modern writers are agreed in fixing it at
   Tell Hûm.

   [1778] Jewish War iii. 10. 8; Life 72.

   [1779] The stories are too foolish, and the insinuations too vile, to
   be here repeated. The second of the two notices evidently refers to the
   first. The heretic' Jacob spoken of, is the bete noire of the Rabbis.
   The implied charges against the Christians remind one of the
   description, Rev. ii. 20-24.

   [1780] Midr. on Eccl. i. 8. and vii 26. ed. Warsh. vol. iii. p. 80 a
   and 97 a.

   [1781] St. Matt. viii. 5, &c.

   [1782] The comparison is Canon Tristram's (Land of Israel, p. 427.)

   [1783] This is another Rabbinic interpretation of the term Gennesaret.

   [1784] St. Mark ii. 15; comp. iii. 20, 31.

   [1785] St. Matt. viii. 14.

   [1786] St. John vi. 49, 59.

   [1787] Comp. especially Warren's Recovery of Jerusalem, pp. 337-351.

   [1788] a.d. 27.

   [1789] Wieseler and most modern writers place the Baptism of Jesus in
   the summer of 27 a.d., and, accordingly, the first Passover in spring,
   28 a.d. But it seems to me highly improbable, that so long an interval
   as nine or ten months should have elapsed between John's first
   preaching and the Baptism of Jesus. Besides, in that case, how are we
   to account for the eight or nine months between the Baptism and the
   Passover? So far as I know, the only reason for this strange hypothesis
   is St. John ii. 20, which will be explained in its proper place.

   [1790] 780 a.u.c. or 27 a.d.

   [1791] St. John xi. 55.

   [1792] Simon Maccabee had copper money coined; the so-called copper
   shekel, a little more than a penny, and also half and quarter shekels
   (about a half-penny, and a farthing). His successors coined even
   smaller copper money. During the whole period from the death of Simon
   to the last Jewish war no Jewish silver coins issued from the
   Palestinian mint, but only copper coins. Herzfeld (Handelsgesch. pp.
   178, 179) suggests that there was sufficient foreign silver coinage
   circulating in the country, while naturally only a very small amount of
   foreign copper coin would be brought to Palestine.

   [1793] It is extremely difficult to fix the exact equivalent. Cassel
   computes it at one-fifth, Herzfeld at one-sixth, Zunz at one-third, and
   Winer at one-fourth of a denar.

   [1794] Comp. Winer's Real-Wörterb. I have taken a low estimate, so as
   to be well within bounds. All the regulations about the Tribute and
   Qolbon are enumerated in Sheqal. i. I have not given references for
   each of the statements advanced, not because they are not to hand in
   regard to almost every detail, but to avoid needless quotations.

   [1795] 54-53 b.c.

   [1796] Comp. The Temple and its Services, &c.,' pp. 118, 119.

   [1797] Jer. Taan iv. 8.

   [1798] M. Derenbourg (Histoire de Palest., p. 467) holds that these
   shops were kept by priests, or at any rate that the profits went to
   them. But I cannot agree with him that these were the Chanuyoth, or
   shops, of the family of Annas, to which the Sanhedrin migrated forty
   years before the destruction of Jerusalem. See farther on.

   [1799] Sanh. 5 b.

   [1800] Bekhor. iv. 5.

   [1801] It is certain that this Temple-market could not have been on
   both sides of the Eastern Gate - the gate Shushan - as far as Solomon's
   Porch' (Dr. Farrar). If it had been on both sides of this gate, it must
   have been in Solomon's Porch. But this supposition is out of the
   question. There would have been no room there for a market, and it
   formed the principal access into the Sanctuary. The Temple-market was
   undoubtedly somewhere in the Court of the Gentiles.'

   [1802] Ker. i. 7.

   [1803] Jerus. Chag. 78 a.

   [1804] It is, however, quite certain that Baba ben Buta had not been
   the first to introduce' (Dr. Farrar) this traffic. A perusal of Jer.
   Chag. 78 a shows this sufficiently.

   [1805] Jer. Sheq. i. 7, last 4 lines, p. 46 b.

   [1806] Rosh haSh. 31 a, b.

   [1807] Siphré on Deut. § 105, end. ed. Friedmann, p. 95 b; Jer. Peah i.
   6.

   [1808] St. Matt. xxi. 12.

   [1809] Ant. xx. 9. 2-4.

   [1810] Pes. 57 a.

   [1811] Pes. u. s.

   [1812] St. Matt. xxi. 12, &c.; St. Mark xi 11, &c.; St. Luke xix. 45
   &c.

   [1813] It must, however, be admitted, that even Luther had grave doubts
   whether the narrative of the Synoptists and that of the fourth Gospel
   did not refer to one and the same event. Comp. Meyer, Komment. (on St.
   John), p. 142, notes.

   [1814] And so He ever does, beginning His Ministry by purifying,
   whether as regards the individual or the Church.

   [1815] Canon Westcott calls attention to the use of two different terms
   for money-changers in vv. 14, 15. In the latter only it is kollubists,
   of which the Aramaic form is qolbon. It is this qolbon-taking against
   which the Hand of Christ is specially directed.

   [1816] Yet Renan ventures to characterise this as a sudden, ill-advised
   outburst of ill-humour.

   [1817] Acts xxi. 31, 32.

   [1818] St. Matt. xiii. 11-15; St. Mark iv. 11, 12.

   [1819] St. Matt. xii. 38-40.

   [1820] I cannot see in the words of Jesus any direct reference to the
   abrogation of the material Temple and its services, and the
   substitution of the Church for it. Of course, such was the case, and
   implied in His Crucifixion and Resurrection, though not alluded to
   here.

   [1821] From the expression (St. John ii. 20) Forty and six years was
   this Temple in building,' it has been inferred by most writers that
   this Passover was of the year 791 a.u.c., or 28 a.d., and not, as we
   have argued, of the year 780 a.u.c., or 27 a.d. But their calculation
   rests on an oversight. Admittedly the rebuilding of the Temple began in
   the autumn of the eighteenth year of Herod's reign (Jos. Ant. xv. 11.
   1-6). As Herod's reign dates from 717 a.u.c., the Temple-building must
   have commenced in the autumn of the year 734-35. But it has already
   been explained that, in Jewish reckoning, the beginning of a new year
   was reckoned as a year. Thus if, according to universal opinion (comp.
   Wieseler, Chronolog. Synopse, pp. 165, 166), the Temple-building began
   in Kislev 734, forty-nine years after it would bring us to the autumn
   779, and the Passover of 780, or 27 a.d., would be regarded and spoken
   of as forty and six years.' If a Jew had calculated the time at the
   Passover 781, he would not have said forty-six' but forty-seven years'
   was this Temple in building.' The mistake of writers lies in forgetting
   that a fresh year had begun after the autumn - or at any rate at the
   Passover. It may here be added, that the Temple was not finally
   completed till 63 a.d.

   [1822] Acts xiii. 41.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER VI.
THE TEACHER COME FROM GOD AND THE TEACHER FROM JERUSALEM - JESUS AND NICODEMUS

   (St. John iii. 1-21.)

   But there were those who beheld, and heard His words, and did in some
   measure understand them. Even before Jesus had spoken to the
   Temple-officials, His disciples, as silently they watched Him, saw an
   old Scripture-saying kindled into light by the halo of His glory. It
   was that of the suffering, self-forgetful, God-dedicated Servant of
   Jehovah, as His figure stood out against the Old Testament sky,
   realising in a hostile world only this, as the deepest element of His
   being and calling: entire inward and outward consecration to God, a
   burnt-offering, such as Isaac would have been. Within their minds
   sprang up unbidden, as when the light of the Urim and Thummim fell on
   the letter graven on the precious stones of the High-Priest's
   breastplate, those words of old: The zeal of Thine house eateth me up.'
   [1823] Thus, even in those days of their early learning, Jesus purging
   the Temple in view of a hostile rulership was the full realisation of
   that picture, which must be prophetic, since no mere man ever bore
   those lineaments: that of the ideal Nazarite, whom the zeal of God's
   house was consuming. And then long afterwards, after His Passion and
   Death, after those dark days of loneliness and doubt, after the misty
   dawn of the first recognition, this word, which He had spoken to the
   rulers at the first, came to them, with all the convincing power of
   prediction fulfilled by fact, as an assured conviction, which in its
   strong grasp held not only the past, but the present, because the
   present is ever the fulfilment of the past: When therefore He was risen
   from the dead, His disciples remembered that He had said this unto
   them; and they believed the Scripture, and the word which Jesus had
   said.'

   Again, as we think of the meaning of His refusing a sign' to the rulers
   of Israel - or rather think of the only sign' which He did give them -
   we see nothing incompatible with it in the fact that, at the same
   feast, He did many signs' [1824] in sight of the people. For it was
   only the rulers who had entered on that conflict, of which, from the
   character and aims of the two parties engaged, the beginning involved
   the terrible end as its logical sequence. In presence of such a foe
   only one sign' could be given: that of reading their inmost hearts, and
   in them their real motives and final action, and again of setting forth
   His own final triumph - a predictive description, a no sign' that was,
   and is, a sign to all time. But neither challenge nor hostile demand
   for a sign had been addressed to Him by the people. Indeed even at the
   last, when incited by their rulers, and blindly following them, they
   knew not what they did.' And it was to them that Jesus now, on the
   morning of His Work, spoke by signs.'

   The Feast of the Passover commenced on the 15th Nisan, dating it, of
   course, from the preceding evening. But before that - before the
   slaying of the Paschal Lamb, on the afternoon of the 14th Nisan - the
   visitor to the Temple would mark something peculiar. [1825] On the
   evening of the 13th Nisan, with which the 14th, or preparation-day,'
   commenced, the head of each household would, with lighted candle and in
   solemn silence, search out all leaven in his house, prefacing his
   search with solemn thanksgiving and appeal to God, and closing it by an
   equally solemn declaration that he had accomplished it, so far as
   within his knowledge, and disavowing responsibility for what lay beyond
   it. And as the worshippers went to the Temple, they would see
   prominently exposed, on a bench in one of the porches, two desecrated
   cakes of some thank offering, indicating that it was still lawful to
   eat of that which was leavened. At ten, or at latest eleven o'clock,
   one of those cakes was removed, and then they knew that it was no
   longer lawful to eat of it. At twelve o'clock the second cake was
   removed, and this was the signal for solemnly burning all the leaven
   that had been gathered. Was it on the eve of the 14th, when each head
   of a house sought for and put aside the leaven, or else as the people
   watched these two cakes, and then the removal of the last of them,
   which marked that all leaven was to be purged out,' that Jesus, in real
   fulfilment of its national meaning, cleansed' the Temple of its leaven?

   We can only suggest the question. But the cleansing of the Temple'
   undoubtedly preceded the actual festive Paschal week. [1826] To those
   who were in Jerusalem it was a week such as had never been before, a
   week when they saw the signs which He did,' and when, stirred by a
   strange impulse, they believed in His Name' as the Messiah. A
   milk-faith,' as Luther pithily calls it, which fed on, and required for
   its sustenance, signs.' And like a vision it passed with the thing
   seen. Not a faith to which the sign was only the fingerpost, but a
   faith of which the sign, not the thing signified, was the substance; a
   faith which dazzled the mental sight, but reached not down to the
   heart. And Jesus, Who with heart-searching glance saw what was in man,
   Who needed not any to tell Him, but with immediateness knew all, did
   not commit Himself to them. They were not like His first Galilean
   disciples, true of heart and in heart. The Messiah Whom these found,
   and He Whom those saw, met different conceptions. The faith of the
   Jerusalem sign-seers would not have compassed what the Galileans
   experienced; it would not have understood nor endured, had He committed
   Himself to them. And yet He did, in wondrous love, condescend and speak
   to them in the only language they could understand, in that of signs.'
   Nor was it all in vain.

   Unrecorded as these miracles are - because the words they spoke were
   not recorded on many hearts - it was not only here and there, by this
   or that miracle, that their power was felt. Their grand general effect
   was, to make the more spiritually minded and thoughtful feel that Jesus
   was indeed a teacher come from God.' In thinking of the miracles of
   Jesus, and generally of the miraculous in the New Testament, we are too
   apt to overlook the principal consideration in the matter. We regard it
   from our present circumstances, not from those of the Jews and people
   of that time; we judge it from our standpoint, not from theirs. And yet
   the main gist of the matter lies here. We would not expect to be
   convinced of the truth of religion, nor converted to it, by outward
   miracles; we would not expect them at all. Not but that, if a notable
   miracle really did occur, its impression and effect would be
   overwhelming; although, unless a miracle submitted itself to the
   strictest scientific tests, when in the nature of things it would cease
   to be a miracle, it would scarcely find general credence. Hence, truth
   to say, the miraculous in the New Testament constitutes to modern
   thought not its strong, but its weak point; not its convincing
   evidence, but its point of attack and difficulty. Accordingly, treating
   of, or contemplating the miracles of the New Testament, it is always
   their moral, not their natural (or supranatural), aspect which has its
   chief influence upon us. But what is this but to say that ours is
   modern, not ancient thought, and that the evidential power of Christ's
   miracles has given place to the age and dispensation of the Holy Ghost?
   With us the process is the reverse of what it was with them of old.
   They approached the moral and spiritual through the miraculous; we the
   miraculous through the moral and spiritual. His Presence, that one
   grand Presence is, indeed, ever the same. But God always adapts His
   teaching to our learning; else it were not teaching at all, least of
   all Divine teaching. Only what carries it now to us is not the same as
   what carried it to them of old: it is no more the fingerpost of signs,'
   but the finger of the Spirit. To them the miraculous was the expected -
   that miraculous which to us also is so truly and Divinely miraculous,
   just because it applies to all time, since it carries to us the moral,
   as to them the physical, aspect of the miracle; in each case, Divine
   reality Divinely conveyed. It may therefore safely be asserted, that to
   the men of that time no teaching of the new faith would have been real
   without the evidence of miracles.

   In those days, when the idea of the miraculous was, so to speak, fluid
   - passing from the natural into the supernatural - and men regarded all
   that was above their view-point of nature as supernatural, the idea of
   the miraculous would, by its constant recurrence, always and
   prominently suggest itself. Other teachers also, among the Jews at
   least, claimed the power of doing miracles, and were popularly credited
   with them. But what an obvious contrast between theirs and the signs'
   which Jesus did! In thinking of this, it is necessary to remember, that
   the Talmud and the New Testament alike embody teaching Jewish in its
   form, and addressed to Jews, and - at least so far as regards the
   subject of miracles - at periods not far apart, and brought still
   nearer by the singular theological conservatism of the people. If, with
   this in our minds, we recall some of the absurd Rabbinic pretensions to
   miracles - such as the creation of a calf by two Rabbis every Sabbath
   eve for their Sabbath meal, [1827] or the repulsive, and in part
   blasphemous, account of a series of prodigies in testimony of the
   subleties of some great Rabbi [1828] - we are almost overwhelmed by the
   evidential force of the contrast between them and the signs' which
   Jesus did. We seem to be in an entirely new world, and we can
   understand the conclusion at which every earnest and thoughtful mind
   must have arrived in witnessing them, that He was, indeed, a Teacher
   from God.'

   Such an observer was Nicodemus (Naqdimon), [1829] one of the Pharisees
   and a member of the Jerusalem Sanhedrin. And, as we gather from his
   mode of expression, [1830] not he only, but others with him. From the
   Gospel-history we know him to have been cautious by nature and
   education, and timid of character; yet, as in other cases, it was the
   greatest offence to his Jewish thinking, the Cross, which at last
   brought him to the light of decision, and the vigour of bold
   confession. [1831] And this in itself would show the real character of
   his inquiry, and the effect of what Jesus had first taught him. It is,
   at any rate, althogether rash to speak of the manner of his first
   approach to Christ as most commentators have done. We can scarcely
   realise the difficulties which he had to overcome. It must have been a
   mighty power of conviction, to break down prejudice so far as to lead
   this old Sanhedrist to acknowledge a Galilean, untrained in the
   Schools, as a Teacher come from God, and to repair to Him for direction
   on, perhaps, the most delicate and important point in Jewish theology.
   But, even so, we cannot wonder that he should have wished to shroud his
   first visit in the utmost possible secrecy. It was a most compromising
   step for a Sanhedrist to take. With that first bold purgation of the
   Temple a deadly feud between Jesus and the Jewish authorities had
   begun, of which the sequel could not be doubtful. It was involved in
   that first encounter in the Temple, and it needed not the experience
   and wisdom of an aged Sanhedrist to forecast the end.

   Nevertheless, Nicodemus came. If this is evidence of his intense
   earnestness, so is the bearing of Jesus of His Divine Character, and of
   the truth of the narrative. As he was not depressed by the resistance
   of the authorities, nor by the milk-faith' of the multitude, so He was
   not elated by the possibility of making such a convert as a member of
   the great Sanhedrin. There is no excitement, no undue deference, nor
   eager politeness; no compromise, nor attempted persuasiveness; not even
   accommodation. Nor, on the other hand, is there assumed superiority,
   irony, or dogmatism. There is not even a reference to the miracles, the
   evidential power of which had wrought in His visitor the initial
   conviction, that He was a Teacher come from God. All is calm, earnest,
   dignified - if we may reverently say it - as became the God-Man in the
   humiliation of His personal teaching. To say that it is all un-Jewish
   were a mere truism: it is Divine. No fabricated narrative would have
   invented such a scene, nor so represented the actors in it. [1832]

   Dangerous as it may be to indulge the imagination, we can almost
   picture the scene. The report of what passed reads, more than almost
   any other in the Gospels, like notes taken at the time by one who was
   present. We can almost put it again into the form of brief notes, by
   heading what each said in this manner, Nicodemus: - or, Jesus:. They
   are only the outlines of the conversation, given, in each case, the
   really important gist, and leaving abrupt gaps between, as would be the
   manner in such notes. Yet quite sufficient to tell us all that is
   important for us to know. We can scarcely doubt that it was the
   narrator, John, who was the witness that took the notes. His own
   reflections upon it, or rather his afterlook upon it, in the light of
   later facts, and under the teaching of the Holy Ghost, is described in
   the verses with which the writer follows his account of what had passed
   between Jesus and Nicodemus (St. John iii. 16-21). In the same manner
   he winds up with similar reflections (ib. vv. 31-36) the reported
   conversation between the Baptist and his disciples. In neither case are
   the verses to which we refer, part of what either Jesus or John said at
   the time, but what, in view of it, John says in name of, and to the
   Church of the New Testament. [1833]

   If from St. John xix. 27 we might infer that St. John had a home' in
   Jerusalem itself - which, considering the simplicity of living at the
   time, and the cost of houses, would not necessarily imply that he was
   rich - the scene about to be described would have taken place under the
   roof of him who has given us its record. In any case, the circumstances
   of life at the time are so well known, that we have no difficulty in
   realising the surroundings. It was night - one of the nights in that
   Easter week so full of marvels. Perhaps we may be allowed to suppose
   that, as so often in analogous circumstances, the spring-wind, sweeping
   up the narrow streets of the City, had suggested the comparison, [1834]
   [1835] which was so full of deepest teaching of Nicodemus. Up in the
   simply furnished Aliyah - the guest-chamber on the roof, the lamp was
   still burning, and the Heavenly Guest still busy with thought and
   words. There was no need for Nicodemus to pass through the house, for
   an outside stair led to the upper room. It was night, when Jewish
   superstition would keep men at home; a wild, gusty spring night, when
   loiterers would not be in the streets; and no one would see him as at
   that hour he ascended the outside steps that led up to the Aliyah. His
   errand was soon told: one sentence, that which admitted the Divine
   Teachership of Jesus, implied all the questions he could wish to ask.
   Nay, his very presence there spoke them. Or, if otherwise, the answer
   of Jesus spoke them. Throughout, Jesus never descended the standpoint
   of Nicodemus, but rather sought to lift him to His own. It was all
   about the Kingdom of God,' [1836] so connected with that Teacher come
   from God, that Nicodemus would inquire.

   And yet, though Christ never descended to the standpoint of Nicodemus,
   we must bear in mind what his views as a Jew would be, if we would
   understand the interview. Jesus took him straight to whence alone that
   Kingdom' could be seen. Except a man be born from above, [1837] he
   cannot see the Kingdom of God.' It has been thought by commentators,
   that there is here an allusion to a Jewish mode of expression in regard
   to proselytes, who were viewed as new-born.' But in that case Nicodemus
   would have understood it, and answered differently - or, rather, not
   expressed his utter inability to understand it. It is indeed, true that
   a Gentile on becoming a proselyte - though not, as has been suggested,
   an ordinary penitent [1838] - was likened to a child just born. [1839]
   It is also true, that persons in certain circumstances - the bridegroom
   on his marriage, the Chief of the Academy on his promotion, the king on
   his enthronement - were likened to those newly born. [1840] The
   expression, therefore, was not only common, but, so to speak, fluid;
   only, both it and what it implied must be rightly understood. In the
   first place, it was only a simile, and never meant to convey a real
   regeneration (as a child'). So far as proselytes were concerned, it
   meant that, having entered into a new relation to God, they also
   entered into new relationship to man, just as if they had at that
   moment been newly born. All the old relations had ceased - a man's
   father, brother, mother, sister were no longer his nearest of kin: he
   was a new and another man. Then, secondly, [1841] it implied a new
   state, when all a man's past was past, and his sins forgiven him as
   belonging to that past. It will now be perceived, how impossible it was
   for Nicodemus to understand the teaching of Jesus, and yet how
   all-important to him was that teaching. For, even if he could have
   imagined that Jesus pointed to repentance, as that which would give him
   the figurative standing of born from above,' or even born anew,' it
   would not have helped him. For, first, this second birth was only a
   simile. Secondly, according to the Jewish view, this second birth was
   the consequence of having taken upon oneself the Kingdom;' not, as
   Jesus put it, the cause and condition of it. The proselyte had taken
   upon himself the Kingdom,' and therefore he was born' anew, while Jesus
   put it that he must be born again in order to see the Kingdom of God.
   Lastly, it was a birth from above' to which reference was made. Judaism
   could understand a new relationship towards God and man, and even the
   forgiveness of sins. But it had no conception of a moral renovation, a
   spiritual birth, as the initial condition for reformation, far less as
   that for seeing the Kingdom of God. And it was because it had no idea
   of such birth from above,' of its reality or even possibility, that
   Judaism could not be the Kingdom of God.

   Or, to take another view of it, for Divine truth is many-sided -
   perhaps some would say, to make Western' application of what was first
   spoken to the Jew - in one respect Nicodemus and Jesus had started from
   the same premiss: The Kingdom of God. But how different were their
   conceptions of what constituted that Kingdom, and of what was its door
   of entrance! What Nicodemus had seen of Jesus had not only shaken the
   confidence which his former views on these subjects had engendered in
   him, but opened dim possibilities, the very suggestion of which filled
   him with uneasiness as to the past, and vague hopes as to the future.
   And so it ever is with us also, when, like Nicodemus, we first arrive
   at the conviction that Jesus is the Teacher come from God. What He
   teaches is so entirely different from what Nicodemus, or any of us
   could, from any other standpoint than that of Jesus, have learned or
   known concerning the Kingdom and entrance into it. The admission,
   however reached, of the Divine Mission of this Teacher, implies,
   unspoken, the grand question about the Kingdom. It is the opening of
   the door through which the Grand Presence will enter in. To such a man,
   as to us in like unspoken questioning, Jesus ever has but one thing to
   say: Except a man be born from above, he cannot see the Kingdom of
   God.' The Kingdom is other, the entrance to it is other, than you know
   or think. That which is of the flesh is flesh. Man may rise to high
   possibilities - mental, even moral: self-development, self-improvement,
   self-restraint, submission to a grand idea or a higher law, refined
   moral egotism, aesthetic even moral altruism. But to see the Kingdom of
   God: to understand what means the absolute rule of God, the one high
   calling of our humanity, by which a man becomes a child of God - to
   perceive this, not as an improvement upon our present state, but as the
   submission of heart, mind, and life to Him as our Divine King, an
   existence which is, and which means, proclaiming unto the world the
   Kingship of God: this can only be learned from Christ, and needs even
   for its perception a kinship of spirit - for that which is born of the
   Spirit is spirit. To see it, needs the birth from above; to enter it,
   the double baptismal birth of what John's Baptism had meant, and of
   what Christ's Baptism was.

   Accordingly, all this sounded quite strange and unintelligible to
   Nicodemus. He could understand how a man might become other, and so
   ultimately be other; but how a man could first be other in order to
   become other - more than that, needed to be born from above,' in order
   to see the Kingdom of God' - passed alike his experience and his Jewish
   learning. Only one possibility of being occurred to him: that given him
   in his natural disposition, or as a Jew would have put it, in his
   original innocency when he first entered the world. And this - so to
   express ourselves - he thought aloud. [1842] But there was another
   world of being than that of which Nicodemus thought. That world was the
   Kingdom of God' in its essential contrariety to the Kingdom of this
   world, whether in the general sense of that expression, or even in the
   special Judaistic sense attaching to the Kingdom' of the Messiah. There
   was only one gate by which a man could pass into that Kingdom of God -
   for that which was of the flesh could ever be only fleshly. Here a man
   might strive, as did the Jews, by outward conformity to become, but he
   would never attain to being. But that Kingdom' was spiritual, and here
   a man must be in order to become. How was he to attain that new being?
   The Baptist had pointed it out in its negative aspect of repentance and
   putting away the old by his Baptism of water; and as regarded its
   positive aspect he had pointed to Him Who was to baptize with the Holy
   Ghost and with fire. This was the gate of being through which a man
   must enter into the Kingdom, which was of the Messiah, because it was
   of God and the Messiah was of God, and in that sense the Teacher come
   from God' - that is, being sent of God, He taught of God by bringing to
   God. This but a few who had gone to the Baptist had perceived, or
   indeed could perceive, because the Baptist could in his Baptism only
   convey the negative, not the positive, aspect of it. And it needed that
   positive aspect - the being born from above - in order to see the
   Kingdom of God. But as to the mystery of this being in order to become
   - hark! did he hear the sound of that wind as it swept past the Aliyah?
   He heard its voice; but he neither knew whence it came, nor whither it
   went. So was every one that was born of the Spirit. You heard the voice
   of the Spirit Who originated the new being, but the origination of that
   new being, or its further development into all that it might and would
   become, lay beyond man's observation.

   Nicodemus now understood in some measure what entrance into the Kingdom
   meant; but its how seemed only involved in greater mystery. That it was
   such a mystery, unthought and unimagined in Jewish theology, was a
   terribly sad manifestation of what the teaching in Israel was. Yet it
   had all been told them, as of personal knowledge, by the Baptist and by
   Jesus; nay, if they could only have received it, by the whole Old
   Testament. He wanted to know the how of these things before he believed
   them. He believed them not, though they passed on earth, because he
   knew not their how. How then could he believe that how, of which the
   agency was unseen and in heaven? To that spring of being no one could
   ascend but He that had come down from heaven, [1843] and Who, to bring
   to us that spring of being, had appeared as the Son of Man,' the Ideal
   Man, the embodiment of the Kingdom of Heaven, and thus the only true
   Teacher come from God. Or did Nicodemus think of another Teacher -
   hitherto their only Teacher, Moses - whom Jewish tradition generally
   believed to have ascended into the very heavens, in order to bring the
   teaching unto them? [1844] Let the history of Moses, then, teach them!
   They thought they understood his teaching, but there was one symbol in
   his history before which tradition literally stood dumb. They had heard
   what Moses had taught them; they had seen the earthly things' of God in
   the Manna which had rained from heaven, and, in view and hearing of it
   all, they had not believed, but murmured and rebelled. Then came the
   judgment of the fiery serpents, and, in answer to repentant prayer, the
   symbol of new being, a life restored from death, as they looked on
   their no longer living but dead death lifted up before them. A symbol
   this, showing forth two elements: negatively, the putting away of the
   past in their dead death (the serpent no longer living, but a brazen
   serpent); and positively, in their look of faith and hope. Before this
   symbol, as has been said, tradition has stood dumb. It could only
   suggest one meaning, and draw from it one lesson. Both these were true,
   and yet both insufficient. The meaning which tradition attached to it
   was, that Israel lifted up their eyes, not merely to the serpent, but
   rather to their Father in heaven, and had regard to His mercy. This,
   [1845] as St. John afterwards shows (ver. 16), was a true
   interpretation; but it left wholly out of sight the Antitype, in gazing
   on Whom our hearts are uplifted to the love of God, Who gave His
   only-begotten Son, and we learn to know and love the Father in His Son.
   And the lesson which tradition drew from it was, that this symbol
   taught, the dead would live again; for, as it is argued, [1846] behold,
   if God made it that, through the similitude of the serpent which
   brought death, the dying should be restored to life, how much more
   shall He, Who is Life, restore the dead to life.' And here lies the
   true interpretation of what Jesus taught. If the uplifted serpent, as
   symbol, brought life to the believing look which was fixed upon the
   giving, pardoning love of God, then, in the truest sense, shall the
   uplifted Son of Man give true life to everyone that believeth, looking
   up in Him to the giving and forgiving love of God, which His Son came
   to bring, to declare, and to manifest. For as Moses lifted up the
   serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that
   whosoever believeth should in Him have eternal life.' [1847]

   With this final and highest teaching, which contains all that
   Nicodemus, or, indeed, the whole Church, could require or be able to
   know, He explained to him and to us the how of the new birth - alike
   the source and the flow of its spring. Ours it is now only to believe,'
   where we cannot further know, and, looking up to the Son of Man in His
   perfected work, to perceive, and to receive the gift of God's love for
   our healing. In this teaching it is not the serpent and the Son of Man
   that are held side by side, though we cannot fail to see the symbolic
   reference of the one to the other, but the uplifting of the one and the
   other - the one by the sin, the other through the sin of the people:
   both on account of it - the forthgoing of God's pardoning mercy, the
   look of faith, and the higher recognition of God's love in it all.

   And so the record of this interview abruptly closes. It tells all, but
   no more than the Church requires to know. Of Nicodemus we shall hear
   again in the sequel, not needlessly, nor yet to complete a biography,
   were it even that of Jesus; but as is necessary for the understanding
   of this History. What follows [1848] are not the words of Christ, but
   of St. John. In them, looking back many years afterwards in the light
   of completed events, the Apostle takes his stand, as becomes the
   circumstances, where Jesus had ended His teaching of Nicodemus - under
   the Cross. In the Gift, unutterable in its preciousness, he now sees
   the Giver and the Source of all. [1849] Then, following that teaching
   of Jesus backward, he sees how true it has proved concerning the world,
   that that which is of the flesh is flesh;' how true, also concerning
   the Spirit-born, and what need there is to us of this birth from
   above.'

   But to all time, through the gusty night of our world's early spring,
   flashes, as the lamp in that Aliyah through the darkened streets of
   silent Jerusalem, that light; sounds through its stillness, like the
   Voice of the Teacher come from God, this eternal Gospel-message to us
   and to all men: God so loved the world, that He gave His only-begotten
   Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have
   everlasting life.'
     __________________________________________________________________

   [1823] Ps. lxix. 9.

   [1824] Although our A.V. translates in ver. 18 sign' and in ver. 23
   miracles,' the Greek word is the same in both cases, and means a sign.'

   [1825] We reserve a detailed account of the Paschal celebration for our
   account of the last Passover of Jesus.

   [1826] St. John ii.

   [1827] Sanh. 65 b.

   [1828] Baba Mez. 59 b.

   [1829] A Nicodemus is spoken of in the Talmud as one of the richest and
   most distinguished citisens of Jerusalem (Taan. 20 a: Kethub. 66 b:
   Gitt. 56 a; Ab. de R. Nath. 6 comp. Ber. R. 42. Midr. on Eccles. vii.
   12, and on Lament. i. 5). But this name was only given him on account
   of a miracle which happened at his request, his real name being Bunai,
   the son of Gorion. A Bunai is mentioned in the Talmud among the
   disciples of Jesus, and a story is related how his daughter, after
   immense wealth, came to most abject poverty. But there can scarcely be
   a doubt that this somewhat legendary Naqdimon was not the Nicodemus of
   the Gospel.

   [1830] We know that Thou art a Teacher come from God.'

   [1831] St. John xix. 39.

   [1832] This, of course, is not the view of the Tubingen School, which
   regards the whole of this narrative as representing a later
   development. Dr. Abbott (Encycl. Brit., Art. Gospels,' p. 821) regards
   the expression, born of water and of the Spirit,' as a reference to
   Christian Baptism, and this again as evidence for the late authorship
   of the fourth Gospel. His reasoning is, that the earliest reference to
   regeneration is contained in St. Matt. xviii. 3. Then he supposes a
   reference in Justin's Apologia (i. 61) to be a further development of
   this doctrine, and he denies what is generally regarded as Justin's
   quotation from St. John iii. 5 to be such, because it omits the word
   water.' A third stage he supposes to be implied in 1 Pet. i. 3, 23;
   with which he connects 1 Pet. iii. 21. The fourth stage of development
   he regards as embodied in the words of St. John iii. 5. All these
   hypotheses - for they are no more than such - are built on Justin's
   omission of the word water,' which, as Dr. Abbott argues, proves that
   Justin must have been unacquainted with the fourth Gospel, since
   otherwise it were impossible that, when expressly treating of Baptism,
   he should have omitted it. To us, on the other hand, the opposite seems
   the legitimate inference. Treating confessedly of Baptism, it was only
   necessary for his argument, which identified regeneration with Baptism,
   to introduce the reference to the Spirit. Otherwise the quotation is so
   exactly that from the fourth Gospel, including even the objection of
   Nicodemus, that it is almost impossible to imagine that so literal a
   transcription could have originated otherwise than from the fourth
   Gospel itself, and that it is the result of a supposed series of
   developments in which Justin would represent the second, and the fourth
   Gospel the fourth stage. But besides, the attentive reader of the
   chapter in Justin's Apology cannot fail to remark that Justin
   represents a later, and not an earlier, stage than the fourth Gospel.
   For, with Justin, Baptism and regeneration are manifestly identified,
   not with renovation of our nature, but with the forgiveness of sins.

   [1833] For detailed examination and proof I must here refer the reader
   to Canon Westcott's Commentary.

   [1834] St. John iii. 8.

   [1835] I cannot agree with Archdeacon Watkins, who would render it, The
   Spirit breathes' - an opinion, so far as I know, unsupported, and which
   seems to me ill-accordant with the whole context.

   [1836] The expression, Kingdom of God,' occurs only in iii. 3 and iii.
   5 of the fourth Gospel. Otherwise the expression My Kingdom' is used in
   xviii. 36. This exceptional use of the Synoptic term, Kingdom of God,'
   is noteworthy in this connection, and not without its important bearing
   on the question of the authorship of the fourth Gospel.

   [1837] Notwithstanding the high authority of Professor Westcott, I must
   still hold that this, and now anew,' is the right rendering. The word
   nothen has always the meaning above' in the fourth Gospel (ch. iii. 3,
   7, 31; xix. 11, 23); and otherwise also St. John always speaks of a
   birth' from God (St. John i. 13; 1 John ii. 29; iii. 9; iv. 7; v. 1, 4,
   18).

   [1838] This is at least implied by Wünsche, and taken for granted by
   others. But ancient Jewish tradition and the Talmud do not speak of it.
   Comp. Yebam. 22 a, 62 a; 97 a and b; Bekhor 47 a. Proselytes are always
   spoken of as new creatures,' Ber. R. 39, ed. Warsh. p. 72 a; Bemidb. R.
   11. In Vayyikra R. 30, Ps. cii. 18, the people that shall be created'
   is explained: For the Holy One, blessed be His Name, will create them a
   new creature.' In Yalkut on Judg. vi. 1 (vol. ii. p. 10 c, about the
   middle) this new creation is connected with the forgiveness of sins, it
   being maintained that whoever has a miracle done, and praises God for
   it, his sins are forgiven, and he is made a new creature. This is
   illustrated by the history of Israel at the Red Sea, by that of Deborah
   and Barak, and by that of David. In Shem. R. 3 (ed. Warsh. ii. p. 11 a)
   the words Ex. iv. 12, teach thee what thou shalt say,' are explained as
   equivalent to I will create thee a new creation.'

   [1839] Yebam. 62 a.

   [1840] Yalkut on 1 Sam. xiii.

   [1841] As in Yalkut.

   [1842] ver. 4.

   [1843] The clause Who is in heaven' is regarded, on critical grounds,
   as a gloss. But, even so, it seems almost a necessary gloss, in view of
   the Jewish notions about the ascent of Moses into heaven. Strange to
   say, the passage referred to forced Socinus to the curious dogma that
   before the commencement of His ministry Jesus had been rapt in spirit
   to heaven. (Comp. The History and Development of Socinianism,' in the
   North. Brit. Rev. May 1859.)

   [1844] This in many places. Comp., for ex., Jer. Targ. on Deut. xxx.
   12, and the shocking notice in Bemid. R. 19. Another view, however,
   Sukk. 5 a.

   [1845] So already in Wisdom of Solomon xvi. 7; still more clearly in
   the Targum Pseudo-Jonathan on Numb. xxi. 8, 9: He who lifted up his
   heart to the name of the Memra of Jehovah, lived;' and in the Jerusalem
   Targum on the passage: And Moses made a serpent of brass, and set it on
   a place aloft [of uplifting] (talé - the same term, curiously, which is
   applied by the Jews to Christ as the Uplifted' or Crucified' One). And
   it was that every one that was bitten with the serpent, and lifted his
   face in prayer (the word implies humbled prayer) unto His Father Who is
   in heaven, and looked unto the brazen serpent, he was healed.'
   Similarly Rosh haSh iii. 8. Buxtorf's learned tractate on the Brazen
   Serpent (Exercitationes, pp. 458-492) adds little to our knowledge.

   [1846] Yalkut, vol. i. p. 240.

   [1847] This seems the correct reading. Comp. Canon Westcott's note on
   the passage, and in general his most full and thorough criticism of the
   various readings in this chapter.

   [1848] St. John iii. 16-21.

   [1849] ver. 16.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER VII.
IN JUDÆA AND THROUGH SAMARIA - A SKETCH OF SAMARITAN HISTORY AND THEOLOGY - JEWS
AND SAMARITANS.

   (St. John iv. 1-4.)

   We have no means of determining how long Jesus may have tarried in
   Jerusalem after the events recorded in the previous two chapters. The
   Evangelic narrative [1850] only marks an indefinite period of time,
   which, as we judge from internal probability, cannot have been
   protracted. From the city He retired with His disciples to the
   country,' which formed the province of Judæa. There He taught and His
   disciples baptized. [1851] [1852] From what had been so lately
   witnessed in Jerusalem, as well as from what must have been known as to
   the previous testimony of the Baptist concerning Him, the number of
   those who professed adhesion to the expected new Kingdom, and were
   consequently baptized, was as large, in that locality, as had submitted
   to the preaching and Baptism of John, perhaps even larger. An
   exaggerated report was carried to the Pharisaic authorities: [1853]
   Jesus maketh and baptizeth more disciples than John.' [1854] From
   which, at least, we infer, that the opposition of the leaders of the
   party to the Baptist was now settled, and that it extended to Jesus;
   and also, what careful watch they kept over the new movement.

   But what seems at first sight strange is the twofold circumstance, that
   Jesus should for a time have established Himself in such apparently
   close proximity to the Baptist, and that on this occasion, and on this
   only, He should have allowed His disciples to administer the rite of
   Baptism. That the latter must be not be confounded with Christian
   Baptism, which was only introduced after the Death of Christ, [1855]
   or, to speak more accurately, after the outpouring of the Holy Ghost,
   needs no special explanation. But our difficulties only increase, as we
   remember the essential difference between them, grounded on that
   between the Mission of John and the Teaching of Jesus. In the former,
   the Baptism of repentant preparation for the coming Kingdom had its
   deepest meaning; not so in presence of that Kingdom itself, and in the
   teaching of its King. But, even were it otherwise, the administration
   of the same rite by John and by the disciples of Jesus in apparently
   close proximity, seems not only unnecessary, but it might give rise to
   misconception on the part of enemies, and misunderstanding or jealousy
   on the part of weak disciples.

   Such was actually the case when, on one occassion, a discussion arose
   on the part of John's disciples with a Jew,' [1856] on the subject of
   purification. [1857] We know not the special point in dispute, nor does
   it seem of much importance, since such questions' would naturally
   suggest themselves to a caviller or opponent [1858] who encountered
   those who were administering Baptism. What really interests us is, that
   somehow this Jewish objector must have connected what he said with a
   reference to the Baptism of Jesus' disciples. For, immediately
   afterwards, the disciples of John, in their sore zeal for the honour of
   their master, brought him tidings, in the language of doubt, if not of
   complaint, of what to them seemed interference with the work of the
   Baptist, and almost presumption on the part of Jesus. While fully alive
   to their grievous error, perhaps in proportion as we are so, we cannot
   but honour and sympathise with this loving care for their master. The
   toilsome mission of the great Ascetic was drawing to its close, and
   that without any tangible success so far as he was concerned. Yet, to
   souls susceptible of the higher, to see him would be to be arrested; to
   hear him, to be convinced; to know, would be to love and venerate him.
   Never before had such deep earnestness and reality been witnessed, such
   devotedness, such humility and self-abnegation, and all in that great
   cause which set every Jewish heart on fire. And then, in the high-day
   of his power, when all men had gathered around him and hung on his
   lips; when all wondered whether he would announce himself as the
   Christ, or, at least, as His Forerunner, or as one of the great
   Prophets; when a word from him would have kindled that multitude into a
   frenzy of enthusiasm - he had disclaimed everything for himself, and
   pointed to Another! But this Coming One,' to whom he had borne witness,
   had hitherto been quite other than their Master. And, as if this had
   not been enough, the multitudes, which had formerly come to John, now
   flocked around Jesus; nay, He had even unsurped the one distinctive
   function still left to their master, humble as it was. It was evident
   that, hated and watched by the Pharisees; watched, also, by the
   ruthless jealousy of a Herod; overlooked, if not supplanted, by Jesus,
   the mission of their master was nearing its close. It had been a life
   and work of suffering and self-denial; it was about to end in
   loneliness and sorrow. They said nothing expressly to complain of Him
   to Whom John had borne witness, but they told of what He did, and how
   all men came to Him.

   The answer which the Baptist made, may be said to mark the high point
   of his life and witness. Never before was he so tender, almost sad;
   never before more humble and self-denying, more earnest and faithful.
   The setting of his own life-sun was to be the rising of One infinitely
   more bright; the end of his Mission the beginning of another far
   higher. In the silence, which was now gathering around him, he heard
   but one Voice, that of the Bridegroom, and he rejoiced in it, though he
   must listen to it in stillness and loneliness. For it he had waited and
   worked. Not his own, but this had he sought. And now that it had come,
   he was content; more than content: his joy was now fulfilled.' He must
   increase, but I must decrease.' It was the right and good order. With
   these as his last words publicly spoken, [1859] this Aaron of the New
   Testament unrobed himself ere he lay down to die. Surely among those
   born of women there was not one greater than John.

   That these were his last words, publicly spoken and recorded, may,
   however, explain to us why on this exceptional occasion Jesus
   sanctioned the administration by His disciples of the Baptism of John.
   It was not a retrogression from the position He had taken in Jerusalem,
   nor caused by the refusal of His Messianic claims in the Temple. [1860]
   There is no retrogression, only progression, in the Life of Jesus. And
   yet it was only on this occasion that the rite was administered under
   His sanction. But the circumstances were exceptional. It was John's
   last testimony to Jesus, and it was preceded by this testimony of Jesus
   to John. Far divergent, almost opposite, as from the first their paths
   had been, this practical sanction on the part of Jesus of John's
   Baptism, when the Baptist was about to be forsaken, betrayed, and
   murdered, was Christ's highest testimony to him. Jesus adopted his
   Baptism, ere its waters for ever ceased to flow, and thus He blessed
   and consecrated them. He took up the work of His Forerunner, and
   continued it. The baptismal rite of John administered with the sanction
   of Jesus, was the highest witness that could be borne to it.

   There is no necessity for supposing that John and the disciples of
   Jesus baptized at, or quite close to, the same place. On the contrary,
   such immediate juxtaposition seems, for obvious reasons, unlikely.
   Jesus was within the boundaries of the province of Judæa, while John
   baptized at Ænon (the springs), near to Salim. The latter site has not
   been identified. But the oldest tradition, which places it a few miles
   to the south of Bethshean (Scythopolis), on the border of Samaria and
   Galilee, has this in its favour, that it locates the scene of John's
   last public work close to the seat of Hearod Antipas, into whose power
   the Baptist was so soon to be delivered. [1861] But already there were
   causes at work to remove both Jesus and His Forerunner from their
   present spheres of activity. As regards Christ, we have the express
   statement, [1862] that the machinations of the Pharisaic party in
   Jerusalem led Him to withdraw into Galilee. And, as we gather from the
   notice of St. John, the Baptist was now involved in this hostility, as
   being so closely connected with Jesus. Indeed, we venture the
   suggestion that the imprisonment of the Baptist, although occasioned by
   his outspoken rebuke of Herod, was in great part due to the intrigues
   of the Pharisees. Of such a connection between them and Herod Antipas,
   we have direct evidence in a similar attempt to bring about the removal
   of Jesus from his territory. [1863] It would not have been difficult to
   rouse the suspicions of a nature so mean and jealous as that of
   Antipas, and this may explain the account of Josephus, [1864] who
   attributes the imprisonment and death of the Baptist simply to Herod's
   suspicious fear of John's unbounded influence with the people. [1865]

   Leaving for the present the Baptist, we follow the footsteps of the
   Master. They are only traced by the disciple who best understood their
   direction, and who alone has left us a record of the beginning of
   Christ's ministry. For St. Matthew and St. Mark expressly indicate the
   imprisonment of the Baptist as their starting-point, [1866] and, though
   St. Luke does not say this in so many words, he characteristically
   commences with Christ's public Evangelic teaching in the Synagogues of
   Galilee. Yet the narrative of St. Matthew [1867] reads rather like a
   brief summary; [1868] that of St. Mark seems like a succession of rapid
   sketches; and even that of St. Luke, though with deeper historic
   purpose than the others, outlines, rather than tells, the history. St.
   John alone does not profess to give a narrative at all in the ordinary
   sense; but he selects incidents which are characteristic as unfolding
   the meaning of that Life, and records discourses which open its inmost
   teaching; [1869] and he alone tells of that early Judæan ministry and
   the journey through Samaria, which preceded the Galilean work.

   The shorter road from Judæa to Galilee led through Samaria; [1870] and
   this, if we may credit Josephus, [1871] was generally taken by the
   Galileans on their way to the capital. On the other hand, the Judæans
   seem chiefly to have made a détour through Peræa, in order to avoid
   hostile and impure Samaria. It lay not within the scope of our Lord to
   extend His personal Ministry, especially at its commencement, beyond
   the boundaries of Israel, [1872] and the expression, He must needs go
   through Samaria,' [1873] can only refer to the advisability in the
   circumstances of taking the most direct road, [1874] or else to the
   wish of avoiding Peræa as the seat of Herod's government. [1875] Such
   prejudices in regard to Samaria, as those which affected the ordinary
   Judæan devotee, would, of course, not influence the conduct of Jesus.
   But great as these undoubtedly were, they have been unduly exaggerated
   by modern writers, misled by one-sided quotations from Rabbinic works.
   [1876]

   The Biblical history of that part of Palestine which bore the name of
   Samaria need not here be repeated. [1877] Before the final deportation
   of Israel by Shalmaneser, or rather Sargon, [1878] the Samaria' to
   which his operations extended must have considerably shrunk in
   dimensions, not only owing to previous conquests, but from the
   circumstance that the authority of the kings of Judah seems to have
   extended over a considerable portion of what once constituted the
   kingdom of Israel. [1879] Probably the Samaria of that time included
   little more than the city of that name, together with some adjoining
   towns and villages. It is of considerable interest to remember that the
   places, to which the inhabitants of Samaria were transported, [1880]
   have been identified with such clearness as to leave no reasonable
   doubt, that at least some of the descendants of the ten tribes, whether
   mixed or unmixed with Gentiles, must be sought among what are now known
   as the Nestorian Christians. [1881] On the other hand, it is of no
   practical importance for our present purpose to ascertain the exact
   localities, whence the new Samaritans' were brought to take the place
   of the Israelitish exiles. [1882] Suffice it, that one of them, perhaps
   that which contributed the principal settlers, Cuthah, furnished the
   name Cuthim, by which the Jews afterwards persistently designated the
   Samaritans. It was intended as a term of reproach, [1883] to mark that
   they were of foreign race, [1884] [1885] and to repudiate all
   connection between them and the Jews. Yet it is impossible to believe
   that, at least in later times, they did not contain a considerable
   admixture of Israelitish elements. It is difficult to suppose, that the
   original deportation was so complete as to leave behind no traces of
   the original Israelitish inhabitants. [1886] Their number would
   probably be swelled by fugitives from Assyria, and by Jewish settlers
   in the troublous times that followed. Afterwards, as we know, they were
   largely increased by apostates and rebels against the order of things
   established by Ezra and Nehemiah. [1887] Similarly, during the period
   of internal political and religious troubles, which marked the period
   to the accession of the Maccabees, the separation between Jews and
   Samaritans could scarcely have been generally observed, the more so
   that Alexander the Great placed them in close juxtaposition. [1888]

   The first foreign colonists of Samaria brought their peculiar forms of
   idolatry with them. [1889] But the Providential judgments, by which
   they were visited, led to the introduction of a spurious Judaism,
   consisting of a mixture of their former superstitions with Jewish
   doctrines and rites. [1890] Although this state of matters resembled
   that which had obtained in the original kingdom of Israel, perhaps just
   because of this, Ezra and Nehemiah, when reconstructing the Jewish
   commonwealth, insisted on a strict separation between those who had
   returned from Babylon and the Samaritans, resisting equally their
   offers of co-operation and their attempts at hindrance. This embittered
   the national feeling of jealousy already existing, and led to that
   constant hostility between Jews and Samaritans which has continued to
   this day. The religious separation became final when (at a date which
   cannot be precisely fixed [1891] ) the Samaritans built a rival temple
   on Mount Gerizim, and Manasseh, [1892] the brother of Jaddua, the
   Jewish High-Priest, having refused to annul his marriage with the
   daughter of Sanballat, was forced to flee, and became the High-Priest
   of the new Sanctuary. Henceforth, by impudent assertion and
   falsification of the text of the Pentateuch, [1893] Gerizim was
   declared the rightful centre of worship, and the doctrines and rites of
   the Samaritans exhibited a curious imitation and adaptation of those
   prevalent in Judæa.

   We cannot here follow in detail the history of the Samaritans, nor
   explain the dogmas and practices peculiar to them. The latter would be
   the more difficult, because so many of their views were simply
   corruptions of those of the Jews, and because, from the want of an
   authenticated ancient literature, [1894] the origin and meaning of many
   of them have been forgotten. [1895] Sufficient, however, must be said
   to explain the mutual relations at the time when the Lord, sitting on
   Jacob's well, first spake to the Samaritans of the better worship in
   spirit and truth,' and opened that well of living water which has never
   since ceased to flow.

   The political history of the people can be told in a few sentences.
   Their Temple, [1896] to which reference has been made, was built, not
   in Samaria but at Shechem - probably on account of the position held by
   that city in the former history of Israel - and on Mount Gerizim, which
   in the Samaritan Pentateuch was substituted for Mount Ebal in Deut.
   xxvii. 4. It was Shechem also, with its sacred associations of Abraham,
   Jacob, and Joseph, which became the real capital of the Samaritans. The
   fate of the city of Samaria under the reign of Alexander is uncertain -
   one account speaking of the rebellion of the city, the murder of the
   Macedonian governor, the consequent destruction of Samaria, and the
   slaughter of part, and transportation of the rest, of its inhabitants
   to Shechem, [1897] while Josephus is silent on these events. When,
   after the death of Alexander, Palestine became the field of battle
   between the rulers of Egypt and Syria, Samaria suffered even more than
   other parts of the country. In 320 b.c. it passed from the rule of
   Syria to that of Egypt (Ptolemy Lagi). Six years later [1898] it again
   became Syrian (Antigonus). Only three years afterwards, [1899] Ptolemy
   reconquered and held it for a very short time. On his retreat, he
   destroyed the walls of Samaria and of other towns. In 301 it passed
   again by treaty into the hands of Ptolemy, out in 298 it was once more
   ravaged by the son of Antigonus. After that it enjoyed a season of
   quiet under Egyptian rule, till the reign of Antiochus (III.) the
   Great, when it again passed temporarily, and under his successor,
   Seleucus IV. (Philopator), [1900] permanently under Syrian dominion. In
   the troublous times of Antiochus IV. Epiphanes, [1901] the Samaritans
   escaped the fate of the Jews by repudiating all connection with Israel,
   and dedicating their temple to Jupiter. [1902] In the contest between
   Syria and the Maccabees which followed, the Samaritans, as might be
   expected, took the part of the former. In 130 b.c. John Hyrcanus
   destroyed the Temple on Mount Gerizim, [1903] which was never rebuilt.
   The city of Samaria was taken several years afterwards [1904] [1905] by
   the sons of Hyrcanus (Antigonus and Aristobulus), after a year's siege,
   and the successive defeat of Syrian and Egyptian armies of relief.
   Although the city was now not only destroyed, but actually laid under
   water to complete its ruin, it was rebuilt by Gabinius shortly before
   our era, [1906] and greatly enlarged and beautified by Herod, who
   called it Sebaste in honour of Augustus, to whom he reared a
   magnificent temple. [1907] Under Roman rule the city enjoyed great
   privileges - had even a Senate of its own. [1908] By one of those
   striking coincidences which mark the Rule of God in history, it was the
   accusation brought against him by that Samaritan Senate which led to
   the deposition of Pilate. By the side of Samaria, or Sebaste, we have
   already marked as perhaps more important, and as the religious capital,
   the ancient Shechem, which, in honour of the Imperial family of Rome,
   ultimately obtained the name of Flavia Neapolis, which has survived in
   the modern Nablus. It is interesting to notice that the Samaritans also
   had colonies, although not to the same extent as the Jews. Among them
   we may name those of Alexandria, Damascus, in Babylonia, and even some
   by the shores of the Red Sea. [1909]

   Although not only in the New Testament, but in 1 Macc. x. 30, and in
   the writings of Josephus, [1910] Western Palestine is divided into the
   provinces of Judæa, Samaria, and Galilee, the Rabbis, whose ideas were
   shaped by the observances of Judaism, ignore this division. For them
   Palestine consisted only of Judæa, Peræa, and Galilee. [1911] Samaria
   appears merely as a strip intervening between Judæa and Galilee, being
   the land of the Cuthæans.' [1912] Nevertheless, it was not regarded
   like heathen lands, but pronounced clean. Both the Mishnah [1913] and
   Josephus [1914] mark Anuath ({hebrew}) as the southern boundary of
   Samaria (towards Judæa). Northward it extended to Ginæa (the ancient
   En-Gannim) on the south side of the plain of Jezreel; on the east it
   was bounded by the Jordan; and on the west by the plain of Sharon,
   which was reckoned as belonging to Judæa. Thus it occupied the ancient
   territories of Manasseh and Ephraim, and extended about forty-eight
   miles (north and south) by forty (east and west). In aspect and climate
   it resembled Judæa, only that the scenery was more beautiful and the
   soil more fertile. The political enmity and religious separation
   between the Jews and Samaritans account for their mutual jealously. On
   all public occasions the Samaritans took the part hostile to the Jews,
   while they seized every opportunity of injuring and insulting them.
   Thus, in the time of Antiochus III. they sold many Jews into slavery.
   [1915] Afterwards they sought to mislead the Jews at a distance, to
   whom the beginning of every month (so important in the Jewish festive
   arrangements) was intimated by beacon fires, by kindling spurious
   signals. [1916] We also read that they tried to desecrate the Temple on
   the eve of the Passover; [1917] and that they waylaid and killed
   pilgrims on their road to Jerusalem. [1918] The Jews retaliated by
   treating the Samaritans with every mark of contempt; by accusing them
   of falsehood, folly, and irreligion; and, what they felt most keenly,
   by disowning them as of the same race or religion, and this in the most
   offensive terms of assumed superiority and self-righteous fanaticism.

   In view of these relations, we almost wonder at the candour and
   moderation occasionally displayed towards the Samaritans in Jewish
   writings. These statements are of practical importance in this history,
   since elaborate attempts have been made to show what articles of food
   the disciples of Jesus might have bought in Samaria, in ignorance that
   almost all would have been lawful. Our inquiry here is, however,
   somewhat complicated by the circumstance that in Rabbinic writings, as
   at present existing, the term Samaritans (Cuthim [1919] ) has, to avoid
   the censorship of the press, been often purposely substituted for
   Sadducees,' or heretics,' i.e. Christians. [1920] Thus, when [1921] the
   Samaritans are charged with denying in their books that the
   Resurrection can be proved from the Pentateuch, the real reference is
   supposed to have been to Sadducean or Christian heretical writings.
   Indeed, the terms Samaritans, Sadducees, and heretics are used so
   interchangeably, that a careful inquiry is necessary, to show in each
   case which of them is really meant. Still more frequent is the use of
   the term Samaritan' ({hebrew}) for stranger' ({hebrew}), the latter,
   and not strictly Samaritan descent being meant. [1922] The popular
   interchange of these terms casts light on the designation of the
   Samaritan as a stranger' by our Lord in St. Luke xvii. 18.

   In general it may be said that, while on certain points Jewish opinion
   remained always the same, the judgment passed on the Samaritans, and
   especially as to intercourse with them, varied, according as they
   showed more or less active hostility towards the Jews. Thus the Son of
   Sirach would correctly express the feeling of contempt and dislike,
   when he characterised the Samaritans as the foolish people' which his
   heart abhorred.' [1923] The same sentiment appears in early Christian
   Pseudepigraphic and in Rabbinic writings. In the so-called Testament of
   the Twelve Patriarchs' (which probably dates from the beginning of the
   second century), Sichem' is the City of Fools, derided by all men.
   [1924] It was only natural, that Jews should be forbidden to respond by
   an Amen to the benediction of Samaritans, at any rate till they were
   sure it had been correctly spoken, [1925] since they were neither in
   practice nor in theory regarded as co-religionists. [1926] [1927] Yet
   they were not treated as heathens, and their land, their springs,
   baths, houses, and roads were declared clean. [1928]

   The question was discussed, whether or not they were to be considered
   lion-proselytes' (from fear of the lions), or as genuine converts;
   [1929] and, again, whether or not they were to be regarded as heathens.
   [1930] This, and the circumstance that different teachers at different
   times gave directly opposite replies to these questions, proves that
   there was no settled principle on the subject, but that opinions varied
   according to the national bearing of the Samaritans. Thus, we are
   expressly told, [1931] that at one time both their testimony and their
   religious orthodoxy were more credited than at others, and they are not
   treated as Gentiles, but placed on the same level as an ignorant Jew. A
   marked difference of opinion here prevails. The older tradition, as
   represented by Simon the son of Gamaliel, regards them as in every
   respect like Israelites; [1932] whilst later authority (Rabbi Jehuda
   the Holy) would have them considered and treated as heathens. Again, it
   is expressly stated in the Babylon Talmud, [1933] that the Samaritans
   observed the letter of the Pentateuch, while one authority adds, that
   in that which they observed they were more strict than the Jews
   themselves. [1934] Of this, indeed, there is evidence as regards
   several ordinances. On the other hand, later authorities again reproach
   them with falsification of the Pentateuch, charge them with worshipping
   a dove, [1935] and even when, on further inquiry, they absolve them
   from this accusation, ascribe their excessive veneration for Mount
   Gerizim to the circumstance that they worshipped the idols which Jacob
   had buried under the oak at Shechem. To the same hatred, caused by
   national persecution, we must impute such expressions as [1936] that
   he, whose hospitality receives a foreigner, has himself to blame if his
   children have to go into captivity.

   The expression, the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans,' [1937]
   finds its exact counterpart [1938] in this: May I never set eyes on a
   Samaritan;' or else, May I never be thrown into company with him!' A
   Rabbi in Cæsarea explains, as the cause of these changes of opinion,
   that formerly the Samaritans had been observant of the Law, which they
   no longer were; a statement repeated in another form to the effect,
   that their observance of it lasted as long as they were in their own
   cities. [1939] Matters proceeded so far, that they were entirely
   excluded from fellowship. [1940] The extreme limit of this direction,
   [1941] if, indeed, the statement applies to the Samaritans, [1942] is
   marked by the declaration, that to partake of their bread was like
   eating swine's flesh. This is further improved upon in a later Rabbinic
   work, [1943] which gives a detailed story of how the Samaritans had
   conspired against Ezra and Nehemiah, and the ban been laid upon them,
   so that now not only was all intercourse with them forbidden, but their
   bread declared like swine's flesh; proselytes were not to be received
   from them; nor would they have part in the Resurrection of the dead.
   [1944] But there is a great difference between all this extravagance
   and the opinions prevailing at the time of Jesus. Even in the Rabbinic
   tractate on the Samaritans [1945] it is admitted, that in most of their
   usages they resembled Israelites, and many rights and privileges are
   conceded to them, from which a heathen would have been excluded. They
   are to be credited' on many points; their meat is declared clean, if an
   Israelite had witnessed its killing, or a Samaritan ate of it; [1946]
   their bread [1947] and, under certain conditions, even their wine, are
   allowed; and the final prospect is held out of their reception into the
   Synagogue, when they shall have given up their faith in Mount Gerizim,
   and acknowledged Jerusalem and the Resurrection of the dead. But Jewish
   toleration went even further. At the time of Christ all their food was
   declared lawful. [1948]   There could, therefore, be no difficulty as
   regarded the purchase of victuals on the part of the disciples of
   Jesus.

   It has already been stated, that most of the peculiar doctrines of the
   Samaritans were derived from Jewish sources. As might be expected,
   their tendency was Sadducean rather than Pharisaic. [1949]
   Nevertheless, Samaritan sages' are referred to. [1950] But it is
   difficult to form any decided opinion about the doctrinal views of the
   sect, partly from the comparative lateness of their literature, and
   partly because the Rabbinist charges against them cannot be absolutely
   trusted. It seems at least doubtful, whether they really denied the
   Resurrection, as asserted by the Rabbis, [1951] from whom the Fathers
   have copied the charge. [1952] Certainly, they hold that doctrine at
   present. They strongly believed in the Unity of God; they held the
   doctrine of Angels and devils; [1953] they received the Pentateuch as
   of sole Divine authority; [1954] they regarded Mount Gerizim as the
   place chosen of God, maintaining that it alone had not been covered by
   the flood, as the Jews asserted of Mount Moriah; they were most strict
   and zealous in what of Biblical or traditional Law they received; and
   lastly, and most important of all, they looked for the coming of a
   Messiah, in Whom the promise would be fulfilled, that the Lord God
   would raise up a Prophet from the midst of them, like unto Moses, in
   Whom his words were to be, and unto Whom they should hearken. [1955]
   [1956] Thus, while, in some respects, access to them would be more
   difficult than to His own countrymen, yet in others Jesus would find
   there a soil better prepared for the Divine Seed, or, at least, less
   encumbered by the thistles and tares of traditionalism and Pharisaic
   bigotry.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [1850] St. John iii. 22.

   [1851] St. John vi. 2.

   [1852] The Baptism of preparation for the Kingdom could not have been
   administered by Him Who opened the Kingdom of Heaven.

   [1853] The Evangelist reports the message which was brought to the
   Pharisees in the very words in which it was delivered.

   [1854] St. John iv. 1.

   [1855] Rom. iv. 3.

   [1856] This, and not the Jews,' is the better reading.

   [1857] St. John iii. 25.

   [1858] Probably the discussion originated with John's disciples - the
   objector being a Jew or a professing disciple of Christ, who deprecated
   their views. In the one case they would in his opinion be too low; in
   the other too high. In either case the subject in dispute would not be
   baptisms, but the general subject of purifications - a subject of such
   wide range in Jewish theology, that one of the six sections into which
   the Mishnah or traditional Law is divided, is specially devoted to it.

   [1859] The next event was John's imprisonment by Herod.

   [1860] This strange suggestion is made by Godet.

   [1861] No fewer than four localities have been identified with Ænon and
   Salim. Ewald, Hengstenberg, Wieseler, and Godet, seek it on the
   southern border of Judæa (En-rimmon, Neh. xi. 29, comp. Josh. xv. 1,
   32). This seems so improbable as scarcely to require discussion. Dr.
   Barclay (City of the Great King, pp. 558-571) finds it a few miles from
   Jerusalem in the Wady Fâr'ah, but admits (p. 565) that there are doubts
   about the Arab pronunciation of this Salim. Lieut. Conder (Tent-Work in
   Palest., vol. i. pp. 91-93) finds it in the Wady Fâr'ah, which leads
   from Samaria to the Jordan. Here he describes most pictorially the
   springs' in the open valley surrounded by desolate and shapeless
   hills,' with the village of Salim three miles south of the valley, and
   the village of 'Ainân four miles north of the stream. Against this
   there are, however, two objections. First, both Ænon and Salim would
   have been in Samaria. Secondly, so far from being close to each other,
   Ænon would have been seven miles from Salim.

   [1862] St. John iv. 1.

   [1863] St. Luke xiii. 31, 32.

   [1864] Ant. xviii 5. 2.

   [1865] Ant. xviii. 5. 2: But to some of the Jews it appeared, that the
   destruction of Herod's army came from God, and, indeed, as a righteous
   punishment on account of what had been done to John, who was surnamed
   the Baptist. For Herod ordered him to be killed, a good man, and who
   commanded the Jews to exercise virtue, both as to righteousness towards
   one another, and piety towards God, and so to come to baptism. For that
   the baptizing would be acceptable to Him, if they made use of it, not
   for the putting away (remission) of some sins, but for the purification
   of the body, after that the soul had been previously cleansed by
   righteousness. And when others had come in crowds, for they were
   exceedingly moved by hearing these words, Herod, fearing lest such
   influence of his over the people might lead to some rebellion, for they
   seemed ready to do anything by his counsel, deemed it best, before
   anything new should happen through him, to put him to death, rather
   than that, when a change should arise in affairs, he might have to
   repent.', Comp. also Krebs. Observationes in Nov. Test. e Fl. Jos. pp.
   35, 36.

   [1866] St. Mark i. 14; St. Mark iv. 12.

   [1867] See specially St. Matt. iv. 13 to end.

   [1868] I am so strongly impressed with this, that I do not feel sure
   about Godet's theory, that the calling of the four Apostles recorded by
   the Synoptists (St. Matt. iv. 18-22; St. Mark i. 16-20; St. Luke v.
   1-11), had really taken place during our Lord's first stay in Capernaum
   (St. John ii. 12). On the whole, however, the circumstances recorded by
   the Synoptists seem to indicate a period in the Lord's Ministry beyond
   that early stay in Capernaum.

   [1869] St. John xx. 30, 31; xxi. 25.

   [1870] Jos. Life, 52.

   [1871] Ant. xx. 6. 1.

   [1872] St. Matt. x. 5.

   [1873] St. John iv. 4.

   [1874] I cannot agree with Archdeacon Watkins, that the needs go' was
   in order to teach in Samaria, as in Judæa, the principles of true
   religion and worship.'

   [1875] So Bengel and Luthardt.

   [1876] Much as has been written about Samaria, the subject has not been
   quite satisfactorily treated. Some of the passages referred to by
   Deutsch (Smith's Dict. of the Bible, vol. iii., Art. Samaritan Pentat.
   p. 1118) cannot be verified, probably owing to printer's mistakes.

   [1877] Comp. 1 Kings xiii. 32; xvi. 24 &c.; Tiglath-Pileser, 2 Kings
   xv. 29; Shalmaneser, xvii. 3-5; xviii. 9-11; Sargon. xvii. 6, &c.

   [1878] Comp. Smith's Bible Dict., Art. Sargon; and Schrader,
   Keil-Inschr. u. d. Alte Test. p. 158 &c.

   [1879] 2 Chron. xxx. 1-26; xxxiv. 6.

   [1880] 2 Kings xvii. 6.

   [1881] Of course, not all the ten tribes. Comp. previous remarks on
   their migrations.

   [1882] 2 Kings xvii. 24-26; comp. Ezr. iv. 2, 10.

   [1883] St. John viii. 48.

   [1884] St. Luke xvii. 16.

   [1885] The expression cannot, however, be pressed as implying that the
   Samaritans were of entirely Gentile blood.

   [1886] Comp. 2 Chron. xxxiv. 6, 9 Jer. xii. 5; Amos v. 3.

   [1887] Jos. Ant. xi. 8, 2, 6, 7.

   [1888] Comp. Herzfeld, Gesch. d. Volkes Isr. ii. p. 120.

   [1889] 2 Kings xvii. 30, 31.

   [1890] vv. 28-41.

   [1891] Jost thinks it existed even before the time of Alexander. Comp.
   Nutt, Samar. Hist. p. 16, note 2.

   [1892] The difficult question, whether this is the Sanballat of the
   Book of Nehemiah, is fully discussed by Petermann (Herzog's Real-Enc.
   vol. xiii. p. 366).

   [1893] For a very full criticism of that Pentateuch, see Mr. Deutsch's
   Art. in Smith's Bible-Dict.

   [1894] Comp. the sketch of it in Nutt's Samar. Hist., and Petermann's
   Art.

   [1895] As instances we may mention the names of the Angels and devils.
   One of the latter is called Yatsara ({hebrew}), which Petermann derives
   from Deut. xxxi. 21, and Nutt from Ex. xxiii. 28. I have little doubt,
   it is only a corruption of Yetser haRa. Indeed, the latter and Satan
   are expressly identified in Baba B. 16 a. Many of the Samaritan views
   seem only corruptions and adaptations of those current in Palestine,
   which, indeed, in the circumstances, might have been expected.

   [1896] The Jews termed it {hebrew} (Ber. R. 81). Frankel ridicules the
   derivation of Reland (de Monte Garis iii., apud Ugolini, Thes. vol.
   vii. pp. 717, 718), who explains the name as peletho nas, stercoreum
   delubrum, corresponding to the Samaritan designation of the Temple at
   Jerusalem as {hebrew} oedes stercorea. Frankel himself (Palast. Ex. p.
   248) derives the expression from pltanos with reference to Gen. xxxv.
   4. But this seems quite untenable. May not the term be a compound of
   {hebrew}, to spit out, and nas?

   [1897] Comp. Herzfeld, u. s. ii. p. 120.

   [1898] In 314.

   [1899] In 311.

   [1900] 187-175.

   [1901] 175-164.

   [1902] According to Jos. Ant. xii. 5. 5, llnios; according to 2 Macc.
   vi. 2, xnios.

   [1903] It is very probable that the date 25 Marcheshvan (Nov.) in the
   Megill. Taan. refers to the capture of Samaria. Both the Talmud (Jer.
   Sot. ix. 14; Sot. 33 a) and Josephus (Ant. xiii. 10. 7) refers to a
   Bath Qol announcing this victory to Hyrcanus while he ministered in the
   Sanctuary at Jerusalem.

   [1904] Between 113 and 105.

   [1905] Not a few of the events of Herod's life were connected with
   Samaria. There he married the beautiful and ill-fated Mariamme (Ant.
   xiv. 12. 1); and there, thirty years later, her two sons were strangled
   by order of the jealous tyrant (Ant. xvi. 11. 2-7).

   [1906] Ant xiv. 5. 3.

   [1907] Ant. xx. 8. 5; Jewish War i. 21. 2.

   [1908] Ant. xviii. 4. 2.

   [1909] Comp. Nutt, Samar. Hist. p. 26, note, and the authorities there
   quoted.

   [1910] See specially War iii. 3. 4, 5.

   [1911] For ex. Baba B. iii. 2.

   [1912] For ex. Jer. Chag. iii. 4.

   [1913] Gitt. vii. 7.

   [1914] War iii. 3. 4, 5.

   [1915] Ant. xii. 4.1.

   [1916] Rosh haSh. ii. 2.

   [1917] Ant. xviii. 2. 2.

   [1918] Ant. xx. 6. 1.

   [1919] The more exact translation would, of course, be Kuthim, but I
   have written Cuthim on account of the reference to 2 Kings xxvii. 24.
   Indeed, for various reasons, it is impossible always to adopt a uniform
   or exact system of transliteration.

   [1920] Thus in Ber. 57 b Cuthæan is evidently used for idolator.' An
   instance of the Jewish use of the term Cuthæan for Christian occurs in
   Ber. R. 64, where the Imperial permission to rebuild the Temple of
   Jerusalem is said to have been frustrated by Cuthæan intrigue, the text
   here evidently referring by that expression not to samaritans, but to
   Christians, however silly the charge against them. See Joël, Blicke in
   d. Relig. Gesch. P. 17. Comp. also Frankel u. s. p. 244; Jost, Gesch.
   d. Judenth. i. p. 49, note 2.

   [1921] In Sanh. 90 b.

   [1922] Frankel quotes as a notable instance of it, Ber. viii. 8, and
   refers in proof to the Jerus. Talmud on this Mishnah. But, for reasons
   soon to be explained, I am not prepared in this instance to adopt his
   view.

   [1923] Ecclus. 1. 25, 26.

   [1924] Test. Levi. vii.

   [1925] Ber. viii. 8.

   [1926] Sheq. i. 5.

   [1927] As in the case of heathens, neither Temple-tribute, nor any
   other than free-will and votive offerings were received from them.

   [1928] Jer. Abhod. Z. v. 4, p. 44 d.

   [1929] Sanh. 85 b; Chull. 3 b; Kidd, 75 b.

   [1930] Jer. Sheq. 46 b.

   [1931] Jer. Demai iii. 4.

   [1932] Comp. also Jer. Dem. vi. 11; Jer. Ber. vii. 1; and Jer. Keth. 27
   a.

   [1933] Ber. 47 b.

   [1934] Comp. Chull. 4 a.

   [1935] Chull. 6 a.

   [1936] Chull. 104 c.

   [1937] St. John iv. 9.

   [1938] Megill. 2.

   [1939] Jer. Abhod. Zar. v. 4.

   [1940] Chull. 6 a.

   [1941] Shebhyith viii. 10.

   [1942] The expression literally applies to idolaters.

   [1943] Yalkut ii. p. 36 d.

   [1944] In Jer. Kil. ix. 4, 9. 32 c (middle) the question of the
   Resurrection is discussed, when it is said that the Samaritan
   inhabitants of Palestine, far from enjoying the blessings of that
   period, would be made into sections (or, made like cloth [?]), and then
   burnt up.

   [1945] Massecheth Kuthim, in Kirchheim, Septem Libri parvi Talmudici,
   pp. 31-36.

   [1946] Chull. 3 b.

   [1947] In Jer. Orlah ii. 7 the question is discussed, how long after
   the Passover it is not lawful to use bread baked by Samaritans, showing
   that ordinarily it was lawful.

   [1948] Jer. Abhod. Zar. v. 4.

   [1949] The doctrinal views, the festive observances, and the literature
   of the Samaritans of a later period, cannot be discussed in this place.
   For further information we refer to the following:, The Articles in
   Smith's Dictionary of the Bible, in Winer's Bibl. Real-Wörterb., and
   especially in Herzog's Real-Encykl. (by Petermann); to Juynboll,
   Comment. in Hist. Gentis Samarit.; Jost, Gesch. des Judenth.; Herzfeld,
   Gesh. des judisch. Volkes, passim; Frankel, Einfluss der Paläst. Exeg.
   pp. 237-254; Nutt, Sketch of Samaritan History, &c.

   [1950] Gitt. 10 b; Nidd. 33 b.

   [1951] Siphré on Numb. xv. 31; Sanh. 90 b.

   [1952] Epiphanius, Hæres. iv., xiv.; Leontius, De Sectis viii.; Gregory
   the Great, Moral. i. xv. Grimm (Die Samariter &c., pp. 91 &c.), not
   only strongly defends the position of the Fathers, but holds that the
   Samaritans did not even believe in the immortality of the soul, and
   maintained that the world was eternal. The Samaritan Chronicle' dates
   from the thirteenth century, but Grimm maintains that it embodies the
   earlier views of that people (u. s. p. 107).

   [1953] This seems inconsistent with their disbelief of the
   Resurrection, and also casts doubt on the patristic testimony about
   them, since Leontius falsely accuses them of rejecting the doctrine of
   Angels. Epiphanius, on the other hand, attributes to them belief in
   Angels. Reland maintains, that they regarded the Angels as merely
   powers' - a sort of impersonal abstractions; Grimm thinks there were
   two sects of Samaritans - one believing, the other disbelieving, in
   Angels.

   [1954] For their horrible distortion of later Jewish Biblical history,
   see Grimm (u. s.), p. 107.

   [1955] Deut. xviii. 15, 18.

   [1956] They expected that this Messiah would finally convert all
   nations to Samaritanism (Grimm, p. 99). But there is no historic ground
   for the view of Mr. Nutt (Sketch of Samar. Hist. pp. 40, 69) that the
   idea of a Messiah the Son of Joseph, which holds so large a place in
   later Rabbinic theology, was of Samaritan origin.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER VIII.
JESUS AT THE WELL OF SYCHAR

   (St. John iv. 1-42.)

   THERE is not a district in the Land of Promise' which presents a scene
   more fair or rich than the plain of Samaria (the modern El Mukhna). As
   we stand on the summit of the ridge, on the way from Shiloh, the eye
   travels over the wide sweep, extending more than seven miles northward,
   till it rests on the twin heights of Gerizim and Ebal, which enclose
   the valley of Shechem. Following the straight olive-shaded road from
   the south, to where a spur of Gerizim, jutting south-east, forms the
   Vale of Shechem, we stand by that Well of Jacob' to which so many
   sacred memories attach. Here, in the parcel of ground' afterwards given
   to Joseph, [1957] which Jacob had brought from the people of the land,
   the patriarch had, at great labour and cost, sunk a well through the
   limestone rock. At present it is partially filled with rubbish and
   stones, but originally it must have gone down about 150 feet. [1958] as
   the whole district abounds in springs, the object of the patriarch must
   have been to avoid occasion of strife with the Amorite herdsmen around.
   That well marks the boundary of the Great Plain, or rather its
   extensions bear other names. To the left (westwards), between Gerizim
   (on the south) and Ebal (on the north), winds the valley of olive-clad
   Shechem, the modern Nablus, though that town is not in view from the
   Well of Sychar. Still higher up the same valley, the mud hovels of
   Sebastiyeh mark the site of ancient Samaria, the magnificent Sebaste of
   Herod. North of the entrance to the Vale of Shechem rises Mount Ebal,
   which also forms. so to speak, the western wall of the northern
   extension of the Plain of Samaria. Here it bears the name of El 'Askar,
   from Askar, the ancient Sychar, which nestles at the foot of Ebal, at a
   distance of about two miles from Shechem. Similarly, the eastern
   extension of the plain bears the name of the Valley of Shalem, from the
   hamlet of that name, which probably occupies the site of the ancient
   city before which Jacob pitched his tent on his return to Canaan.
   [1959]

   At the Well of Jacob' which, for our present purpose, may be regarded
   as the centre of the scene, several ancient Roman roads meet and part.
   That southward, to which reference has already been made, leads close
   by Shiloh to Jerusalem; that westward traverses the vale of Shechem;
   that northward brings us to the ancient Sychar, only about half a mile
   from the Well.' Eastward there are two ancient Roman roads: one winds
   south-east, till it merges in the main road; the other strikes first
   due east, and then descends in a south-easterly direction through Wady
   Farâh, which debouches into the Jordan. We can trace it as it crosses
   the waters of that Wady, and we infer, that its immediate neighbourhood
   must have been the scene where Jesus had taught, and His disciples
   baptized. It is still in Judæa, and yet sufficiently removed from
   Jerusalem; and the Wady is so full of springs that one spot near it
   actually bears the name of 'Ainûn, springs,' like the ancient Ænon.
   But, from the spot which we have indicated, it is about twenty miles,
   across a somewhat difficult country to Jacob's Well. It would be a long
   and toilsome day's journey thither on a summer day, and we can
   understand how, at its end, Jesus would rest weary on the low parapet
   which enclosed the Well, while His disciples went to buy the necessary
   provisions in the neighbouring Sychar.

   And it was, as we judge, the evening of a day in early summer, [1960]
   when Jesus, accompanied by the small band which formed His disciples,
   [1961] emerged into the rich Plain of Samaria. Far as the eye could
   sweep, the fields' were already white unto the harvest.' They had
   reached the Well of Jacob.' There Jesus waited, while the others went
   to Sychar on their work of ministry. Probably John remained with the
   Master. They would scarcely have left Him alone, especially in that
   place; and the whole narrative reads like that of one who had been
   present at what passed. [1962] More than any other, perhaps, in the
   Fourth Gospel, it bears the mark, not only of Judæan, but of
   contemporary authorship. It seems utterly incompatible with the modern
   theory of its Ephesian origin at the end of the second century. The
   location of the scene, not in Sebaste or Shechem, but at Sychar, [1963]
   which in the fourth century at least had so entirely ceased to be
   Samaritan, that it had become the home of some celebrated Rabbis;
   [1964] the intimate knowledge of Samaritan and Jewish relations, which
   at the time of Christ allowed the purchase of food, but would certainly
   not have conceded it two centuries later; even the introduction of such
   a statement as Salvation is of the Jews,' wholly inconsistent with the
   supposed scope of an Ephesian Gospel - these are only some of the facts
   which will occur to the student of that period, as bearing unsolicited
   testimony to the date and nationality of the writer.

   Indeed, there is such minuteness of detail about the narrative, and
   with it such charm of simplicity, affectionateness, reverence, and
   depth of spiritual insight, as to carry not only the conviction of its
   truthfulness, but almost instinctively to suggest to us the beloved
   disciple' as its witness. Already he had taken the place nearest to
   Jesus and saw and spake as none other of the disciples. Jesus weary,
   and resting while the disciples go to but food, is not an Ephesian, but
   a truly Evangelic presentation of the Christ in His human weakness and
   want.

   All around would awaken in the Divinely-attuned soul of the Divine
   Redeemer the thoughts which so soon afterwards found appropriate words
   and deeds. He is sitting by Jacob's Well - the very well which the
   ancestor of Israel had digged, and left as a memorial of his first and
   symbolic possession of the land. Yet this was also the scene of
   Israel's first rebellion against God's order, against the Davidic line
   and the Temple. And now Christ is here, among those who are not of
   Israel, and who persecute it. Surely this, of all others, would be the
   place where the Son of David, cast out of Jerusalem and the Temple,
   would think of the breach, and of what alone could heal it. He is
   hungry, and those fields are white to the harvest; yet far more
   hungering for that spiritual harvest which is the food of His soul.
   Over against Him, sheer up 800 feet, rises Mount Gerizim, with the
   ruins of the Samaritan rival Temple on it; just as far behind Him,
   already overhung by the dark cloud of judgment, are that Temple and
   City which knew not the day of their visitation. The one inquiring
   woman, and she a Samaritan, and the few only partially comprehending
   and much misunderstanding disciples; their inward thinking that for the
   spiritual harvest it was but seed-time, and the reaping yet four months
   distant,' while in reality, as even their eyes might see if they but
   lifted them, the fields were white unto the harvest: all this, and much
   more, forms a unique background to the picture of this narrative.

   To take another view of the varying lights on that picture: Jesus weary
   and thirsty by Jacob's Well, and the water of life which was to spring
   from, and by that Well, with its unfailing supply and its unending
   refreshment! The spiritual in all this bears deepest symbolic analogy
   to the outward - yet with such contrasts also, as the woman giving to
   Christ the one, He to her the other; she unconsciously beginning to
   learn, He unintendingly (for He had not even entered Sychar) beginning
   to teach, and that, what He could not yet teach in Judæa, scarcely even
   to His own disciples; then the complete change in the woman, and the
   misapprehension [1965] and non-reception [1966] of the disciples - and
   over it all the weary form of the Man Jesus, opening as the Divine
   Christ the well of everlasting life, the God-Man satisfied with the
   meat of doing the Will, and finishing the Work, of Him that sent Him:
   such are some of the thoughts suggested by the scene.

   And still others rise, as we think of the connection in the narrative
   of St. John of this with what preceded and with what follows. It almost
   seems as if that Gospel were constructed in cycles, each beginning, or
   at least connected, with Jerusalem, and leading up to a grand climax.
   Thus, the first cycle [1967] might be called that of purification:
   first, that of the Temple; then, inward purification by the Baptism
   from above; next, the symbolic Baptism of water; lastly, the real water
   of life given by Jesus; and the climax - Jesus the Restorer of life to
   them that believe. Similarly, the second cycle, [1968] beginning with
   the idea of water in its symbolic application to real worship and life
   from Jesus, would carry us a stage further; and so onward throughout
   the Gospel. Along with this we may note, as another peculiarity of the
   Fourth Gospel, that it seems arranged according to this definite plan
   of grouping together in each instance the work of Christ, as followed
   by the illustrative word of Christ. Thus the fourth would, both
   externally and internally, be the pre-eminently Judæan Gospel,
   characterised by cyclical order, illustrative conjunction of work and
   word, and progressively leading up to the grand climax of Christ's last
   discourses, and finally of His Death and Resurrection, with the
   teaching that flows from the one and the other.

   It was about six o'clock in the evening, [1969] when the travel-stained
   pilgrims reached that parcel of ground' which, according to ancient
   Jewish tradition, Jacob had given to his son Joseph. [1970] Here (as
   already stated) by the Well of Jacob' where the three roads - south, to
   Shechem, and to Sychar (Askar) - meet and part, Jesus sat down, while
   the disciples (probably with the exception of John) went on to the
   closely adjoining little town of Sychar to buy food. Even this latter
   circumstance marks that it was evening, since noon was not the time
   either for the sale of provisions, nor for their purchase by
   travellers. Once more it is when the true Humanity of Jesus is set
   before us, in the weakness of His hunger and weariness, [1971] that the
   glory of His Divine Personality suddenly shines through it. This time
   it was a poor, ignorant Samaritan woman, [1972] who came, not for any
   religious purpose - indeed, to whom religious thought, except within
   her own very narrow circle, was almost unintelligible - who became the
   occasion of it. She had come - like so many of us, who find the pearl
   in the field which we occupy in the business of everyday-life - on
   humble, ordinary duty and work. Men call it common; but there is
   nothing common and unclean that God has sanctified by making use of it,
   or which His Presence and teaching may transform into a vision from
   heaven.

   There was another well (the 'Ain 'Askar), on the east side of the
   little town, and much nearer to Sychar than Jacob's Well;' and to it
   probably the women of Sychar generally resorted. It should also be
   borne in mind, that in those days such work no longer devolved, as in
   early times, on the matrons and maidens of fair degree, but on women in
   much humbler station. This Samaritaness may have chosen Jacob's Well,'
   perhaps, because she had been at work in the fields close by; or else,
   because her abode was nearer in that direction - for the ancient Sychar
   may have extended southward; perhaps, because, if her character was
   what seems implied in verse 18, the concourse of the more common women
   at the village-well of an evening might scarcely be a pleasant place of
   resort to one with her history. In any case, we may here mark those
   Providential leadings in our everyday life, to which we are so often
   almost as much spiritually indebted, as to grace itself; which, indeed,
   form part of the dispensation of grace. Perhaps we should note how, all
   unconsciously to her (as so often to us), poverty and sin sometimes
   bring to the well by which Jesus sits weary, when on His return from
   self-righteous Judæa.

   But these are only symbols; the barest facts of the narrative are
   themselves sufficiently full of spiritual interest. Both to Jesus and
   to the woman, the meeting was unsought, Providential in the truest
   sense - God-brought. Reverently, so far as the Christ is concerned, we
   add, that both acted truly - according to what was in them. The
   request: Give Me to drink,' was natural on the part of the thirsty
   traveller, when the woman had come to draw water, and they who usually
   ministered to Him were away. [1973] Even if He had not spoken, the
   Samaritaness would have recognised the Jew by His appearance [1974] and
   dress, if, as seems likely, He wore the fringes on the border of His
   garment. [1975] His speech would, by its pronunciation, place His
   nationality beyond doubt. [1976] Any kindly address, conveying a
   request not absolutely necessary, would naturally surprise the woman;
   for, as the Evangelist explanatively adds: Jews have no dealings with
   Samaritans,' [1977] or rather, as the expression implies, no needless,
   friendly, nor familiar intercourse with them - a statement true at all
   times. Besides, we must remember that this was an ignorant Samaritaness
   of the lower order. In the mind of such an one, two points would mainly
   stand out: that the Jews in their wicked pride would have no
   intercourse with them; and that Gerizim, not Jerusalem, as the Jews
   falsely asserted, was the place of rightful worship. It was, therefore,
   genuine surprise which expressed itself in the question: How is it,
   Thou, being a Jew, of me askest to drink?' It was the first lesson she
   learned, even before He taught her. Here was a Jew, not like ordinary
   Jews, not like what she had hitherto thought them: what was the cause
   of this difference?

   Before we mark how the answer of Jesus met this very question, and so
   as to direct it to spiritual profit, another and more general
   reflection presses on our minds. Although Jesus may not have come to
   Sychar with the conscious purpose of that which ensued, yet, given the
   meeting with the Samaritan woman, what followed seems almost matter of
   necessity. For it is certain that the Christ, such as the Gospels
   describe Him, could not have been brought into contact with spiritual
   ignorance and want, any more than with physical distress, without
   offering it relief. It was, so to speak, a necessity, alike of His
   Mission and of His Nature (as the God-Man). In the language of another
   Gospel, power went out from Him;' and this, whether consciously sought,
   or unconsciously felt after in the stretching forth of the hands of the
   sightless or in the upward look of the speechless. The Incarnate Son of
   God could not but bring health and life amidst disease and death; the
   Saviour had come to seek and to save that which was lost.


   And so it was, that the How is it?' of the Samaritan women so soon, and
   so fully, found its answer. How is it?' In this, that He, Who had
   spoken to her, was not like what she thought and knew of the Jews. He
   was what Israel was intended to have become to mankind; what it was the
   final object of Israel to have been. In Him was God's gift to mankind.
   Had she but known it, the present relation between them would have been
   reversed; the Well of Jacob would have been a symbol, yet but a symbol,
   of the living water, which she would have asked and He given. As
   always, the seen is to Christ the emblem of the unseen and spiritual;
   Nature, that in and through which, in manifold and divers colouring, He
   ever sees the supernatural, even as the light lies in varying hues on
   the mountain, or glows in changeful colouring on the edge of the
   horizon. A view this of all things existent, which Hellenism, even in
   its sublimest poetic conception of creation as the impress of heavenly
   archetypes, has only materialised and reserved. But to Jesus it all
   pointed upward, because the God of Nature was the God of Grace, the One
   Living and True God in Whom all matter and spirit lives, Whose world is
   one in design, workmanship, and purpose. And so nature was but the echo
   of God's heard Voice, which ever, to all and in all, speaks the same,
   if there be but listening ears. And so He would have it speak to men in
   parables, that, to them who see, it might be the Jacob's ladder leading
   from earth to heaven, while they, whose sight and hearing are bound in
   the sleep of heart-hardening, would see but not perceive, and hear but
   not understand.

   It was with the ignorant woman of Sychar, as it had been with the
   learned Master in Israel.' As Nicodemus had seen, and yet not seen, so
   this Samaritaness. In the birth of which Jesus spoke, he had failed to
   apprehend the from above' and of the Spirit;' she now the thought
   suggested by the contrast between the cistern in the limerock and the
   well of living water. The How can these things be?' of Nicodemus finds
   its parallel in the bewilderment of the woman. Jesus had nothing
   wherewith to draw from the deep well. Whence, then, the living water'?
   To outward appearance there was a physical impossibility. This was one
   aspect of it. And yet, as Nicodemus' question not only similarly
   pointed to a physical impossibility, but also indicated dim searching
   after higher meaning and spiritual reality, so that of the woman: No !
   art Thou greater than our father Jacob?' who, at such labour, had dug
   this well, finding no other means than this of supplying his own wants
   and those of his descendants. Nor did the answer of Jesus now differ in
   spirit from that which He had given to the Rabbi of Jerusalem, though
   it lacked the rebuke, designed to show how thoroughly the religious
   system, of which Nicodemus was a teacher, failed in its highest object.
   But to this woman His answer must be much simpler and plainer than to
   the Rabbi. And yet, if it be Divine teaching, it cannot be quite plain,
   but must contain that which will point upward, and lead to further
   inquiry. And so the Divine Teacher explained, not only the difference
   between ordinary water and that of which He had spoken, but in a manner
   to bring her to the threshold of still higher truth. It was not water
   like that of Jacob's Well which He would give, but living water.' In
   the Old Testament a perennial spring had, in figurative language, been
   thus designated, [1978] in significant contrast to water accumulated in
   a cistern. [1979] But there was more than this: it was water which for
   ever quenched the thirst, by meeting all the inward wants of the soul;
   water also, which, in him who had drunk of it, became a well, not
   merely quenching the thirst on this side time, but springing up into
   everlasting life.' It was not only the meeting of wants felt, but a new
   life, and that not essentially different, but the same as that of the
   future, and merging in it.

   The question has sometimes been asked, to what Jesus referred by that
   well of living water springing up into everlasting life. Of the various
   strange answers given, that, surely, is almost the worst, which would
   apply it to the doctrine of Jesus, supporting such explanation by a
   reference to Rabbinic sayings in which doctrine is compared to water.'
   This is one of those not unfrequent instances in which Rabbinic
   references mislead rather than lead, being insufficiently known,
   imperfectly understood, or misapplied. It is quite true, that in many
   passages the teaching of the Rabbis is compared to water, [1980] but
   never to a well of water springing up.' The difference is very great.
   For it is the boast of Rabbinism, that its disciples drink of the
   waters of their teachers; chief merit lies in receptiveness, not
   spontaneity, and higher praise cannot be given than that of being a
   well-plastered cistern, which lets not out a drop of water,' [1981] and
   in that sense to a spring whose waters ever grow stronger.' But this is
   quite the opposite of what our Lord teaches. For, it is only true of
   what man can give when we read this (in Ecclus. xxiv. 21): They that
   drink me shall yet be thirsty.' [1982] More closely related to the
   words of Christ is it, when we read [1983] of a fountain of wisdom;'
   while, in the Targum on Cant. iv. 14, the words of the Law' are likened
   unto a well of living waters.' The same idea was carried perhaps even
   further, when, at the Feast of Tabernacles, amidst universal rejoicing,
   water from Siloam was poured from a golden pitcher on the altar, as
   emblem of the outpouring of the Holy Ghost. [1984] But the saying of
   our Lord to the Samaritaness referred neither to His teaching, nor to
   the Holy Ghost, nor yet to faith, but to the gift of that new spiritual
   life in Him, of which faith is but the outcome.

   If the humble, ignorant Samaritaness had formerly not seen, though she
   had imperfectly guessed, that there was a higher meaning in the words
   of Him Who spake to her, a like mixture of ill-apprehension and rising
   faith seems to underlie her request for this water, that she might
   thirst no more, neither again come thither to draw. [1985] She now
   believes in the incredible; believes it, because of Him and in Him;
   believes, also, in a satisfaction through Him of outward wants,
   reaching up beyond this to the everlasting life. But all these elements
   are yet in strange confusion. Those who know how difficult it is to
   lodge any new idea in the mind of uneducated rustics in our own land,
   after all our advantages of civilising contact and education, will
   understand, how utterly at a loss this Samaritan countrywoman must have
   been to grasp the meaning of Jesus. But He taught, not as we teach. And
   thus He reached her heart in that dimly conscious longing which she
   expressed, though her intellect was incapable of distinguishing the new
   truth.

   Surely, it is a strange mistake to find in her words [1986] a touch of
   irony,' while, on the other hand, it seems an exaggeration to regard
   them simply as the cry of realised spiritual need. Though reluctantly,
   a somewhat similar conclusion is forced upon us with reference to the
   question of Jesus about the woman's husband, her reply, and the
   Saviour's rejoinder. It is difficult to suppose, that Christ asked the
   woman to call her husband with the primary object of awakening in her a
   sense of sin. This might follow, but the text gives no hint of it. Nor
   does anything in the bearing of the woman indicate any such effect;
   indeed, her reply [1987] and her after-reference to it [1988] rather
   imply the contrary. We do not even know for certain, whether the five
   previous husbands had died or divorced her, and, if the latter, with
   whom the blame lay, although not only the peculiar mode in which our
   Lord refers to it, but the present condition of the woman, seem to
   point to a sinful life in the past. In Judæa a course like hers would
   have been almost impossible; but we know too little of the social and
   moral condition of Samaria to judge of what might there be tolerated.
   On the other hand, we have abundant evidence that, when the Saviour so
   unexpectedly laid open to her a past, which He could only
   supernaturally have known, the conviction at once arose in her that He
   was a Prophet, just as in similar circumstances it had been forced upon
   Nathanael. [1989] But to be a Prophet meant to a Samaritan that He was
   the Messiah, since they acknowledged none other after Moses. Whether or
   not the Messiah was known by the present Samaritan designation of Him
   as the Converter' and the Returner' (Restorer?), is of comparatively
   small importance, though, if we felt certain of this, the influence of
   the new conviction on the mind of the woman would appear even more
   clearly. In any case it was an immense, almost immeasurable, advance,
   when this Samaritan recognised in the stranger Jew, Who had first
   awakened within her higher thoughts, and pointed her to spiritual and
   eternal realities, the Messiah, and this on the strength of evidence
   the most powerfully convincing to a mind like hers: that of telling
   her, suddenly and startlingly, what He could not have known, except
   through higher than human means of information.

   It is another, and much more difficult question, why Jesus should have
   asked for the presence of her husband. The objection, that to do so,
   knowing the while that she had no husband, seems unworthy of our Lord,
   may, indeed, be answered by the consideration, that such proving' of
   those who were in His training was in accordance with His mode of
   teaching, leading upwards by a series of moral questions. [1990] But
   perhaps a more simple explanation may offer even a better reply. It
   seems, as if the answer of verse 15 marked the utmost limit of the
   woman's comprehension. We can scarcely form an adequate notion of the
   narrowness of such a mental horizon as hers. This also explains, at
   least from one aspect, the reason of His speaking to her about His own
   Messiahship, and the worship of the future, in words far more plain
   than He used to His own disciples. None but the plainest statements
   could she grasp; and it is not unnatural to suppose that, having
   reached the utmost limits of which she was capable, the Saviour now
   asked for her husband, in order that, through the introduction of
   another so near to her, the horizon might be enlarged. This is also
   substantially the view of some of the Fathers. [1991] But, if Christ
   was in earnest in asking for the presence of her husband, it surely
   cannot be irreverent to add, that at that moment the peculiar
   relationship between the man and the woman did not stand out before His
   mind. Nor is there anything strange in this. The man was, and was not,
   her husband. Nor can we be sure that, although unmarried, the
   relationship involved anything absolutely contrary to the law; and to
   all intents the man might be known as her husband. The woman's answer
   at once drew the attention of the Christ to this aspect of her history,
   which immediately stood out fully before His Divine knowledge. At the
   same time her words seemed like a confession - perhaps we should say, a
   concession to the demands of her own conscience, rather than a
   confession. Here, then, was the required opportunity, both for carrying
   further truth to her mind, by proving to her that He Who spake to her
   was a Prophet, and at the same time for reaching her heart.

   But whether or not this view of the history be taken, it is difficult
   to understand, how any sober interpreter could see in the five husbands
   of the woman either a symbolical, or a mythical, reference to the five
   deities whom the ancestors of the Samaritans worshipped, [1992] the
   spurious service of Jehovah representing the husband, yet no husband,
   of the woman. It is not worth while discussing this strange suggestion
   from any other than the mythical standpoint. Those who regard the
   incidents of the Gospel-narratives as myths, having their origin in
   Jewish ideas, are put to even greater straits by the whole of this
   narrative than they who regard this Gospel as of Ephesian authorship.
   We may put aside the general objections raised by Strauss, since none
   of his successors has ventured seriously to urge them. It is more
   important to notice, how signally the author of the mythical theory has
   failed in suggesting any historical basis for this myth.' To speak of
   meetings at the well, such as those with Rebekah or Zipporah, is as
   much beside the question as an appeal to Jewish expectancy of an
   omniscient Messiah. Out of these two elements almost any story might be
   constructed. Again, to say that this story of Jesus' success among the
   Samaritans was invented, in order to vindicate the later activity of
   the Apostles among that people, is simply to beg the whole question. In
   these straits so distinguished a writer as Keim [1993] has hazarded the
   statement: The meeting with the Samaritaness has, for every one who has
   eyes, only a symbolical meaning, by the side of which no historical
   fact exists.' An assertion this, which is perhaps best refuted by being
   simply quoted. [1994] On the other hand, of all the myths likely to
   enter into Jewish imagination, the most unlikely would be one
   representing the Christ in familiar converse with a woman, and she a
   Samaritan, offering to her a well of water springing into everlasting
   life, and setting before her a spiritual worship of which Jerusalem was
   not the centre. Where both the Ephesian and the mythical theory so
   signally fail, shall we not fall back upon the natural explanation,
   borne out by the simplicity and naturalness of the narrative - that the
   story here related is real and true? And, if so, shall we not all the
   more thankfully gather its lessons?

   The conviction, sudden but firm, that He Who had laid open the past to
   her was really a Prophet, was already faith in Him; and so the goal had
   been attained - not, perhaps, faith in His Messiahship, about which she
   might have only very vague notions, but in Him. And faith in the
   Christ, not in anything about Him, but in Himself, has eternal life.
   Such faith also leads to further inquiry and knowledge. As it has been
   the traditional practice to detect irony in this or that saying of the
   woman, or else to impute to her spiritual feelings far in advance of
   her possible experience, so, on the other hand, has her inquiry about
   the place of proper worship, Jerusalem or Gerizim, been unduly
   depreciated. It is indeed too true that those, whose consciences are
   touched by a presentation of their sin, often seek to turn the
   conversation into another and quasi-religious channel. But of neither
   the one nor the other is there evidence in the present case. Similarly,
   it is also only too true, that their one point of difference is, to
   narrow-minded sectarians, their all-in-all of religion. But in this
   instance we feel that the woman has no after-thought, no covert purpose
   in what she asks. All her life long she had heard that Gerizim was the
   mount of worship, the holy hill which the waters of the Flood had never
   covered, [1995] and that the Jews were in deadly error. But here was an
   undoubted Prophet, and He a Jew. Were they then in error about the
   right place of worship, and what was she to think, and to do? To apply
   with such a question to Jesus was already to find the right solution,
   even although the question itself might indicate a lower mental and
   religious standpoint. It reminds us of the inquiry which the healed
   Naaman put to Elisha about the Temple of Rimmon, and of his request for
   a mule's burden of earth from the land of the True God, and for true
   worship.

   Once more the Lord answers her question by leading her far beyond it -
   beyond all controversy: even on to the goal of all His teaching. So
   marvellously does He speak to the simple in heart. It is best here to
   sit at the feet of Jesus, and, realising the scene, to follow as His
   Finger points onwards and upwards. There cometh an hour, when neither
   in this mountain, nor yet in Jerusalem, ye shall worship the Father.'
   Words of sad warning, these; words of prophecy also, that already
   pointed to the higher solution in the worship of a common Father, which
   would be the worship neither of Jews nor of Samaritans, but of
   children. And yet there was truth in their present differences. Ye
   worship ye know not what: we worship what we know, since salvation is
   from out of the Jews.' [1996] The Samaritan was aimless worship,
   because it wanted the goal of all the Old Testament institutions, that
   Messiah Who was to be of the seed of David' [1997] - for, of the Jews,
   as concerning the flesh,' was Christ to come. [1998] But only of
   present interest could such distinctions be; for an hour would come,
   nay, already was, when the true worshippers would worship the Father in
   spirit and in truth, for the Father also seeketh such for His
   worshippers. Spirit is God' [1999] - and only worship in spirit and in
   truth could be acceptable to such a God.

   Higher or more Christlike teaching than this could not be uttered. And
   she who heard, thus far understood it, that in the glorious picture,
   which was set before her, she saw the coming of the Kingdom of the
   Messiah. I know that Messiah cometh. [2000] When He cometh, He will
   tell us all things.' It was then that, according to the need of that
   untutored woman, He told her plainly what in Judæa, and even by His
   disciples, would have been carnally misinterpreted and misapplied: that
   He was the Messiah. So true is it, that babes' can receive what often
   must remain long hidden from the wise and prudent.'

   It was the crowning lesson of that day. Nothing more could be said;
   nothing more need be said. The disciples had returned from Sychar. That
   Jesus should converse with a woman, was so contrary to all Judæan
   notions of a Rabbi, [2001] that they wondered. Yet, in their reverence
   for Him, they dared not ask any questions. Meanwhile the woman,
   forgetful of her errand, and only conscious of that new well-spring of
   life which had risen within her, had left the unfilled waterpot by the
   Well, and hurried into the City.' They were strange tidings which she
   brought; the very mode for her announcement affording evidence of their
   truth: Come, see a man who told me all that I have done. No - is this
   the Christ?' We are led to infer, that these strange tidings soon
   gathered many around her; that they questioned, and, as they
   ascertained from her the indisputable fact of His superhuman knowledge,
   believed on Him, so far as the woman could set Him before them as
   object of faith. [2002] Under this impression they went out of the
   City, and came on their way towards Him.' [2003] [2004]

   Meantime the disciples had urged the Master to eat of the food which
   they had brought. But His Soul was otherwise engaged. Thoughts were
   present of the glorious future, of a universal worship of the Father by
   those whom He had taught, and of which He had just seen such unexpected
   earnest. These mingled with feelings of pain at the spiritual dulness
   of those by whom He was surrounded, who could see in that conversation
   with a Samaritan woman nothing but a strange innovation on Rabbinic
   custom and dignity, and now thought of nothing beyond the immediate
   errand on which they had gone to Sychar. Even His words of rebuke only
   made them wonder whether, unknown to them, some one had brought Him
   food. It was not the only, nor the last, instance of their dulness to
   spiritual realities. [2005]

   Yet with Divine patience He bore with them: My meat is, that I may do
   the Will of Him that sent Me, and that I may accomplish (bring to a
   perfect end) His work.' To the disciples that work appeared still in
   the far future. To them it seemed as yet little more than seed-time;
   the green blade was only sprouting; the harvest of such a Messianic
   Kingdom as they expected was still months distant. To correct their
   mistake, the Divine Teacher, as so often, and as best adapted to His
   hearers, chose His illustration from what was visible around. To show
   their meaning more clearly, we venture to reverse the order of the
   sentences which Jesus spoke: Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes
   and look [observantly] at the fields, that they are white to the
   harvest. [But] do ye not say (viz. in your hearts [2006] ) that there
   are yet four months, and the harvest cometh?' The words will appear the
   more striking, if (with Professor Westcott) we bear in mind that,
   perhaps at that very moment, the Samaritans, coming to Him from Sychar,
   were appearing in sight.

   But we also regard it as marking the time, when this conversation took
   place. Generally the words, yet four months, and then cometh the
   harvest,' are regarded either as a proverbial expression, or as
   indicating, that the Lord spake at the Well of Jacob four months before
   the harvest-time - that is, about the month of January, if the
   barley-harvest, or in February, if the wheat-harvest, was meant. The
   suggestion that it was a proverb may be dismissed, first, because there
   is not a trace of such a proverb, and then because, to give it even the
   scantiest meaning, it is necessary to supply: Between seed-time and
   harvest there are four months,' which is not true, since in Palestine
   about six months intervene between them. On the other hand, for reasons
   explained in another place, [2007] we conclude, that it could not have
   been January or February. when Jesus was in Sychar. But why not reverse
   the common theory, and see in the second clause, introduced by the
   words, Behold! lift up your eyes and observe,' a mark of the time and
   circumstances; while the expression, Do ye not say, There are yet four
   months, and then cometh harvest,' would be understood as parabolically
   spoken? Admittedly, one of the two clauses is a literal mark of time,
   and the other is spoken parabolically. But there is no reason why the
   second clause may not mark the time, while on independent grounds we
   must conclude, [2008] that Christ returned from Judæa to Galilee in the
   early summer.

   Passing from this point, we notice how the Lord further unfolded His
   own lesson of present harvesting, and their inversion of what was
   sowing, and what reaping time. Already' [2009] he that reaped received
   wages, and gathered fruit unto eternal life (which is the real reward
   of the Great Reaper, the seeing of the travail of His soul), so that in
   this instance the sower rejoiced equally [2010] as the reaper. And, in
   this respect, the otherwise cynical proverb, that one was the sower,
   another the reaper of his sowing, found a true application. It was
   indeed so, that the servants of Christ were sent to reap what others
   had sown, and to enter into their labour. One had sowed, another would
   reap. And yet, as in this instance of the Samaritans, the sower would
   rejoice as well as the reaper; nay, both would rejoice together, in the
   gathered fruit unto eternal life. And so the sowing in tears is on the
   spiritual field often mingled with the harvest of gladness, and to the
   spiritual view both are really one. Four months' do not intervene
   between them; so that, although one may sow and another reap, yet the
   sower seeth that harvest for which the harvester gets wages, and
   rejoices with him in the fruit which is gathered into the eternal
   storehouse.

   It was as Christ had said. The Samaritans, who believed because of the
   word' (speech) of the woman [what she said] as she testified' of the
   Christ, when they came' to that well, asked Him to abide with them. And
   He abode there two days. And many more believed because of His own word
   (speech, discourse), and said unto the woman: No longer because of thy
   speaking [2011] do we believe. For we ourselves have heard, and know,
   that this is truly the Saviour of the world.' [2012]

   We know not what passed these two days. Apparently no miracles were
   wrought, but those of His Word only. It was the deepest and purest
   truth they learned, these simple men of simple faith, who had not
   learned of man, but listened to His Word only. The sower as well as the
   reaper rejoiced, and rejoiced together. Seed-time and harvest mingled,
   when for themselves they knew and confessed, that this was truly the
   Saviour of the world.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [1957] The reference here is to Gen. xlviii. 22. Wünsche, indeed,
   objects that this application of the passage is inaccurate, and
   contrary to universal Rabbinic tradition. But in this, as in other
   instances, it is not the Gospel, but rather Dr. Wünsche, who is
   inaccurate. If the reader will refer to Geiger's Urschr. p. 80, he will
   find proof that the Evangelist's rendering of Gen. xlviii. 22 was in
   accordance with ancient Rabbinic tradition, which was only afterwards
   altered for anti-Samaritan purposes. On the other hand, this may be
   regarded as another undesigned proof of the Johannine authorship of the
   Fourth Gospel.

   [1958] The present depth of the well is about seventy-five feet. Most
   travellers have given more or less pictorial accounts of Jacob's Well.
   We refer here especially to Mr. King's Report (Quarterly Stat. of the
   Pal. Explor. Fund, Ap. 1879), although it contains the strange mistake
   that Jesus had that day come from Jerusalem, and reached Jacob's Well
   by midday.

   [1959] Gen. xxxiii. 18, 19.

   [1960] For the location of Sychar,' and the vindication of the view
   that the event took place at the beginning of the wheat harvest, or
   about the middle of May, see Appendix XV. The question is of
   considerable importance.

   [1961] From the silence of the Synoptists, and the general designation
   of the disciples without naming them, Caspari concludes that only John,
   and perhaps Nathanael, but none of the other apostles, had accompanied
   Jesus on this journey (Chronol. Geogr. Einl. p. 104).

   [1962] Caspari (u. s. p. 103) thinks that John only related that of
   which he himself was an eyewitness, except, perhaps, in ch. xviii. 33,
   &c.

   [1963] It is very characteristic when Schenkel, in ignorance of the
   fact that Sychar is mentioned by the Rabbis, argues that the use of the
   name Sychar for Shechem affords evidence that the Fourth Gospel is of
   Gentile-Christian origin.

   [1964] See Appendix XV.

   [1965] St. John iv. 33.

   [1966] ii. 13-iv. 54.

   [1967] ii. 13-iv. 54.

   [1968] v.-vi. 3.

   [1969] We have already expressed our belief, that in the Fourth Gospel
   time is reckoned not according to the Jewish mode, but according to the
   Roman civil day, from midnight to midnight. For a full discussion and
   proof of this, with notice of objections, see McLellan's New Test. vol.
   i. pp. 737-743. It must surely be a lapsus when at p. 288 (note o), the
   same author seems to assume the contrary. Meyer objects, that, if it
   had been 6 p.m., there would not have been time for the after-events
   recorded. But they could easily find a place in the delicious cool of a
   summer's evening, and both the coming up of the Samaritans (most
   unlikely at noon-time), and their invitation to Jesus to tarry' with
   them (v. 40), are in favour of our view. Indeed, St. John xix. 14
   renders it impossible to adopt the Jewish mode of reckoning.

   [1970] See a previous note on p. 404.

   [1971] Godet rightly asks what, in view of this, becomes of the
   supposed Docetism which, according to the Tubingen school, is one of
   the characteristics of the Fourth Gospel?

   [1972] By which we are to understand a woman from the country, not the
   town of Samaria, a Samaritaness. The suggestion, that she resorted to
   Jacob's Well on account of its sanctity, scarcely requires refutation.

   [1973] ver. 8.

   [1974] According to the testimony of travellers the Samaritans, with
   the exception of the High-Priestly family, have not the common,
   well-known type of Jewish face and feature.

   [1975] The fringes' on the Tallith of the Samaritans are blue, while
   those worn by the Jews, whether on the Arba Kanphoth or the Tallith,
   are white. The Samaritans do not seem to have worn phylacteries
   (Menach. 42 b). But neither did many of the Jews of old - nor, I feel
   persuaded, our Lord (comp. Jost, Gesch. d. Judenth. vol. i. p. 60).

   [1976] There were, undoubtedly, marked differences of pronunciation
   between the Jews and the Samaritans. Without entering into details, it
   may be said, that they chiefly concern the vowel-sounds; and among
   consonants the gutturals (which are generally not pronounced), the
   aspirates, and the letter {hebrew} which is not, as in Hebrew, either
   {hebrew} (pronounced s), or {hebrew} (pronounced sh), but is always
   pronounced as sh.' In connection with this we may notice one of those
   instances, how a strange mistake comes by tradition' to be commonly
   received. It has been asserted that, if Jesus had said to the woman:
   Teni li lishtoth (Give me to drink'), a Samaritan would have pronounced
   it listoth, since the Samaritans pronounced the sh as s. But the
   reverse of this is the fact. The Samaritans pronounced the s (sin') as
   sh (shin') - and not the sh as s. The mistake arose from confounding
   the old Ephraimite (Judg. xii. 5, 6) with the Samaritan mode of
   pronouncing. The suggestion seems first to have been made - through
   very doubtfully - by Stier (Reden Jesu, iv. p. 134). Stier, however, at
   least rendered the words of Jesus: Teni li lishtoth. Godet (ad loc.)
   accepts Stier's suggestions, but renders the words: Teni li lishchoth.
   Later writers have r epeated this, only altering lishchoth into
   lishkoth.

   [1977] The article is wanting in the original.

   [1978] Gen. xxvi. 19; Lev. xiv. 5.

   [1979] Jer. ii. 13.

   [1980] Those who wish to see the well-worn Rabbinic references will
   find them in Lightfoot and Schöttgen ad loc.

   [1981] Ab. ii. 9.

   [1982] There is much spurious religious sentiment which, in
   contravention to our Lord's saving, delights in such expressions as
   that of St. Bernard of Clairvaux (followed by so many modern
   hymnologists): Qui Te gustant esuriunt, Qui bibunt adhuc sitiunt.' (Ap.
   Daniel, Thes. i p. 223.) The theology of this is not only sickly, but
   untrue and misleading.

   [1983] in Bar. iii. 12.

   [1984] See The Temple and its Ministry,' pp. 241-243.

   [1985] I cannot bring myself to see, as some commentators, any
   extraordinary mark of rising reverence in the use by her of the word
   Sir' in vv. 11 and 15. It seems only natural in the circumstances.

   [1986] ver. 15.

   [1987] ver. 19.

   [1988] ver. 29.

   [1989] St. John i. 48, 49.

   [1990] Comp St. John vi. 6.

   [1991] Comp.  Lücke, Evang. Joh. vol. i. p. 588.

   [1992] 2 Kings xvii. 24 &c.

   [1993] The references here are to Strauss, vol. i. pp. 510-519, and to
   Keim i. 1, p. 116.

   [1994] Meyer, Komment. vol. ii. p. 208, rightly remarks on the theory
   of Baur, Hilgenfeld, &c. According to them, the whole of this history
   is only a type of heathenism as receptive to faith, in contrast to
   Nicodemus, the type of Judaism shutting itself up against faith. But in
   that case why make the principal person a Samaritan, and not a heathen,
   and why attribute to her belief in a Messiah, which was entirely
   foreign to heathenism?

   [1995] Curiously enough, several instances are related in Rabbinic
   writings in which Samaritans enter into dispute with Rabbis who pass by
   Mount Gerizim on their way to Jerusalem, to convince them that Gerizim
   was the proper place of worship. One instance may here be mentioned,.
   when a Samaritan maintained that Gerizim was the mount of blessing,
   because it was not covered by the Flood, quoting in proof Ezek. xxii.
   24. The Rabbi replied, that if such had been the case, God would have
   told Noah to flee there, instead of making an ark. The Samaritan
   retorted, that this was done to try him. The Rabbi was silenced, but
   his muleteer appealed to Gen. vii. 19, according to whcih all the high
   hills under the heavens were covered, and so silenced the Samaritan.
   (Deb. R. 3; comp. Ber. R. 32.) On the other hand, it ought to be added,
   that in Ber. R. 33 the Mount of Olives is said not to have been covered
   by the Flood, and that Ezek. xxii. 24 is applied to this.

   [1996] He had formerly taught her the where,' and now teaches her the
   what,' of true worship.

   [1997] Rom. i. 3.

   [1998] Rom. ix. 5.

   [1999] It is remarkable, that most of the alterations in the Samaritan
   Pentateuch are with the view of removing anthropomorphisms.

   [2000] The words which is called Christ' should be within brackets, and
   are the explanation of the writer.

   [2001] In the original, ver. 31 has it: Rabbi (not Master), eat.'
   Surely such an address to Christ is sufficiently anti-Ephesian. Readers
   know how thoroughly opposed to Jewish notions was any needless converse
   with a woman (comp. Ab. i. 5; Ber. 43 b; Kidd. 70 a; also Erub. 53 b).
   To instruct a woman in the Law was forbidden; comp. the story in Bemid.
   R. 9.

   [2002] vv. 39, 40.

   [2003] ver. 30.

   [2004] Following the suggestion of Professor Westcott, I would thus
   give the real meaning of the original. It may save needless notes if I
   add, that where the rendering differs from the A.V. the change has been
   intentional, to bring out the meaning of the Greek; and that where
   words in the A.V. are omitted, it is because they are either spurious,
   or doubtful.

   [2005] St. Matt. xvi. 6, 7.

   [2006] This is a Hebraism.

   [2007] See them in Appendix XV.

   [2008] Comp. Appendix XV.

   [2009] We follow Canon Westcott, who, for reasons explained by him,
   joins the word already' to ver. 36, omitting the particle and.'

   [2010] It will be noticed that, in ver. 36 na has been translated so
   that,' the ka omitted, and mo rendered equally as.' Linguistically, no
   apology is required for these renderings. I, however, hesitate between
   this and the rendering: in order that the sower may rejoice along with
   the reaper.' But the translation in the text seems to agree better with
   what follows. The whole passage is perhaps one of the most difficult,
   from the curtness and rapid transition of the sentences. The only
   apology which I can offer for proposing a new rendering and a new
   interpretation is, that those with which I am acquainted have not
   conveyed any distinct or connected meaning to my own mind.

   [2011] lala speech, talking.

   [2012] We have omitted the words the Christ', in ver. 42, as apparently
   spurious. In general, the text has been rendered as faithfully as
   possible, so as to bring out the real meaning.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER IX.
THE SECOND VISIT TO CANA - CURE OF THE NOBLEMAN'S' SON AT CAPERNAUM.

   (St. Matt. iv. 12; St. Mark i. 14; St. Luke iv. 14, 15; St. John iv.
   43-54.)

   THE brief harvest in Samaria was, as Jesus had indicated to His
   disciples, in another sense also the beginning of sowing-time, or at
   least that when the green blade first appeared above ground. It formed
   the introduction to that Galilean ministry, when the Galileans received
   Him, having seen all the things that He did at Jerusalem at the Feast.'
   [2013] Nay, in some respects, it was the real beginning of His Work
   also, which, viewed as separate and distinct, commenced when the
   Baptist was cast into prison. [2014] Accordingly, this circumstance is
   specially marked by St. Matthew, [2015] and by St. Mark, [2016] while
   St. Luke, as if to give greater emphasis to it, abruptly connects this
   beginning of Christ's sole and separate Work with the history of the
   Temptation. [2017] All that intervened seems to him but introductory,
   that beginning' which might be summed up by the words, in the power of
   the Spirit,' with which he describes His return to Galilee. In
   accordance with this view, Christ is presented as taking up the message
   of His Forerunner, [2018] only with wider sweep, since, instead of
   adding to His announcement of the Kingdom of Heaven and call to
   repentance that to a Baptism of preparation, He called those who heard
   Him to believe the Gospel' which He brought them. [2019]

   But here also - as Eusebius had already noted [2020] - the Fourth
   Gospel, in its more comprehensive presentation of the Christ, as
   adding, not merely in the external succession of events, but in their
   internal connection, feature to feature in the portraiture of the
   Divine Redeemer, supplies the gap in the Synoptic narratives, which so
   often read only like brief historical summaries, with here and there
   special episodes or reports of teaching inserted. For St. John not only
   tells us of that early Ministry, which the Synoptists designedly pass
   over, but while, like them, referring to the captivity of John as the
   occasion of Christ's withdrawal from the machinations of the Pharisaic
   party in Judæa, he joins this departure from Judæa with the return to
   Galilee by supplying, as connecting link, the brief stay in Samaria
   with its eventful results. St. John, also, alone supplies the
   first-recorded event of this Galilean ministry. [2021] We therefore
   follow his guidance, simply noting that the various stages of this
   Galilean residence should be grouped as follows: Cana, [2022] Nazareth,
   [2023] and Capernaum, with general itineration from that centre. [2024]
   The period occupied, by what is thus briefly indicated in the Gospels,
   was from early summer, say, the beginning of June, to the unnamed feast
   of the Jews.' [2025] If it is objected, that the events seem too few
   for a period of about three months, the obvious answer is, that, during
   most of this time, Jesus was in great measure unattended, since the
   call of the Apostles [2026] only took place after the unnamed feast;'
   that, indeed, they had probably returned to their homes and ordinary
   occupations when Jesus went to Nazareth, [2027] and that therefore, not
   having themselves been eye-witnesses of what had passed, they confined
   themselves to a general summary. At the same time, St. Luke expressly
   marks that Jesus taught in the various Synagogues of Galilee, [2028]
   and also that He made a longer stay in Capernaum. [2029]

   When Jesus returned to Galilee, it was in circumstances entirely
   different from those under which He had left it. As He Himself said,
   [2030] there had, perhaps naturally, been prejudices connected with the
   humbleness of His upbringing, and the familiarity engendered by
   knowledge [2031] of His home-surroundings. These were overcome, when
   the Galileans had witnessed at the feast in Jerusalem, what He had
   done. Accordingly, they were now prepared to receive Him with the
   reverent attention which His Word claimed. We may conjecture, that it
   was partially for reasons such as these that He first bent His steps to
   Cana. The miracle, which had there been wrought, [2032] would still
   further prepare the people for His preaching. Besides, this was the
   home of Nathanael, who had probably followed Him to Jerusalem, and in
   whose house a gladsome homage of welcome would now await Him. It was
   here that the second recorded miracle of His Galilean ministry was
   wrought, with what effect upon the whole district, may be judged from
   the expectancies which the fame of it excited even in Nazareth, the
   city of His early upbringing [2033]

   It appears that the son of one of Herod Antipas' officers, either civil
   or military, [2034] was sick, and at the point of death. When tidings
   reached the father that the Prophet, or more than Prophet, Whose fame
   had preceded Him to Galilee, had come to Cana, he resolved, in his
   despair of other means, to apply to Him for the cure of His child.
   Nothing can be gained for the spiritual interest of this or any other
   Biblical narrative, by exaggeration; but much is lost, when the
   historical demands of the case are overlooked. It is not from any
   disbelief in the supernatural agency at work, that we insist on the
   natural and rational sequence of events. And having done so, we can all
   the more clearly mark, by the side of the natural, the distinctively
   higher elements at work. Accordingly, we do not assume that this
   court-officer' was actuated by spiritual belief in the Son of God, when
   applying to Him for help. Rather would we go to almost the opposite
   extreme, and regard him as simply actuated by what, in the
   circumstances, might be the views of a devout Jew. Instances are
   recorded in the Talmud, which may here serve as our guide. Various
   cases are related in which those seriously ill, and even at the point
   of death, were restored by the prayers of celebrated Rabbis. One
   instance is specially illustrative. [2035] We read that, when the son
   of Rabban Gamaliel was dangerously ill, he sent two of his disciples to
   one Chanina ben Dosa to entreat his prayers for the restoration of his
   son. On this, Chanina is said to have gone up to the Aliyah (upper
   chamber) to pray. On his return, he assured the messengers that the
   young man was restored, grounding his confidence, not on the possession
   of any prophetic gift, but on the circumstance that he knew his request
   was answered from the freedom he had in prayer. The messengers noted
   down the hour, and on their arrival at the house of Gamaliel found,
   that at that very hour the fever left him, and he asked for water.'
   Thus far the Rabbinic story. Even supposing that it was either invented
   or coloured in imitation of the New Testament, it shows, at least, what
   a devout Jew might deem lawful to expect from a celebrated Rabbi, who
   was regarded as having power in prayer.

   Having indicated the illustrated part of this story, we may now mark
   the contrast between it and the event in the Gospels. There restoration
   is not merely asked, but expected, and that, not in answer to prayer,
   but by Christ's Personal presence. But the great and vital contrast
   lies, alike in what was thought of Him Who was instrumental in the cure
   - performed it - and in the moral effects which it wrought. The history
   just quoted from the Talmud is immediately followed by another of
   similar import, when a celebrated Rabbi accounts on this wise for his
   inability to do that in which Chanina had succeeded, that Chanina was
   like a servant of the King,' who went in and out familiarly, and so
   might beg favours; while he (the failing Rabbi) was like a lord before
   the King,' who would not be accorded mere favours, but discussed
   matters on a footing of equality. This profane representation of the
   relation between God and His servants, the utterly unspiritual view of
   prayer which it displays, and the daring self-exaltation of the Rabbi,
   surely mark sufficiently an absolute contrast in spirit between the
   Jewish view and that which underlies the Evangelic narrative.

   Enough has been said to show, that the application to Jesus on the part
   of the royal officer' did not, in the peculiar circumstances, lie
   absolutely beyond the range of Jewish ideas. What the court-officer'
   exactly expected to be done, is a question secondary to that of his
   state of receptiveness, as it may be called, which was the moral
   condition alike of the outward help, and of the inward blessing which
   he received. One thing, however, it is of importance to notice. We must
   not suppose, that when, to the request that Jesus would come down to
   Capernaum to perform the cure, the Master replied, that unless they saw
   [2036] signs and wonders they would not believe, He meant thereby to
   convey that his Jewish hearers, in opposition to the Samaritans,
   required signs and wonders' in order to believe. For the application of
   the officer' was itself an expression of faith, although imperfect.
   Besides, the cure, which was the object of the application, could not
   have been performed without a miracle. What the Saviour reproved was
   not the request for a miracle, which was necessary, but the urgent plea
   that He should come down to Capernaum for that purpose, which the
   father afterwards so earnestly repeated. [2037] That request argued
   ignorance of the real character of the Christ, as if He were either
   merely a Rabbi endowed with special power, or else a miracle-monger.
   What He intended to teach this man was, that He, Who had life in
   Himself, could restore life at a distance as easily as by His Presence;
   by the word of his Power as readily as by personal application. A
   lesson this of the deepest importance, as regarded the Person of
   Christ; a lesson, also, of the widest application to us and for all
   circumstances, temporal and spiritual. When the court-officer' had
   learned this lesson, he became obedient unto the faith,' and went his
   way,' [2038] presently to find his faith both crowned and perfected.
   [2039] And when both he and his house' had learned that lesson, they
   would never afterwards think of the Christ either as the Jews did, who
   simply witnessed His miracles, or unspiritually. It was the completion
   of that teaching which had first come to Nathanael, the first believer
   of Cana. [2040] So, also, is it when we have learned that lesson, that
   we come to know alike the meaning and the blessedness of believing in
   Jesus.

   Indeed, so far as its moral import is concerned, the whole history
   turns upon this point. It also marks the fundamental difference between
   this and the somewhat similar history of the healing of the Centurion's
   servant in Capernaum. [2041] Critics have noticed marked divergences in
   almost every detail of the two narratives, [2042] which some - both
   orthodox and negative interpreters - have so strangely represented as
   only different presentations of one and the same event. [2043] But,
   besides these marked differences of detail, there is also fundamental
   difference in the substance of the narratives, and in the spirit of the
   two applicants, which made the Saviour in the one instance reprove as
   the requirement of sight, which by itself could only produce a
   transitory faith, that which in the other He marvelled at as greatness
   of faith, for which He had in vain looked in Israel. The great point in
   the history of the court-officer' is Israel's mistaken view of the
   Person and Work of the Christ. That in the narrative of the Centurion
   is the preparedness of a simple faith, unencumbered by Jewish realism,
   although the outcome of Jewish teaching. The carnal realism of the one,
   which looks for signs and wonders, is contrasted with the simplicity
   and straightforwardness of the other. Lastly, the point in the history
   of the Syro-Phoenician woman, which is sometimes confounded with it,
   [2044] is the intensity of the same faith which, despite
   discouragements, nay, seeming improbabilities, holds fast by the
   conviction which her spiritual instinct had grasped - that such an One
   as Jesus must be not only the Messiah of the Jews, but the Saviour of
   the world.

   We may as well here complete our critical notices, at least as concerns
   those views which have of late been propounded. The extreme school of
   negative critics seems here involved in hopeless self-contradiction.
   For, if this narrative of a Jewish courtier is really only another
   recension of that of the heathen centurion, how comes it that the
   Jewish' Gospel of St. Matthew makes a Gentile, while the so-called
   anti-Jewish,' Ephesian' Gospel of St. John makes a Jew, the hero of the
   story? As signally does the mythical' theory break down. For,
   admittedly, there is no Rabbinic basis for the invention of such a
   story; and by far the ablest representative of the negative school
   [2045] has conclusively shown, that it could not have originated in an
   imitation of the Old Testament account of Naaman's cure by Elisha the
   prophet. [2046] But, if Christ had really spoken those words to the
   courtier, as this critic seems to admit, there remains only, as he puts
   it, this trilemma:' either He could really work the miracle in
   question; or, He spoke as a mere fanatic; or else, He was simply a
   deceiver. It is a relief to find that the two last hypotheses are
   discarded. But, as negative criticism - may we not say, from the same
   spirit which Jesus reproved in the courtier - is unwilling to admit
   that Jesus really wrought this miracle, it is suggested in explanation
   of the cure, that the sick child, to whom the father had communicated
   his intended application to Jesus, had been in a state of expectancy
   which, when the courtier returned with the joyous assurance that the
   request was granted, issued in actual recovery. [2047] To this there is
   the obvious answer, that the explanation wants the first requirement -
   that of an historical basis. There is not a tittle of evidence that the
   child expected a cure; while, on the other hand, the narrative
   expressly states that he was cured before his father's return. And, if
   the narrative may be altered at will to suit the necessities of a
   groundless hypothesis, it is difficult to see which, or whether any,
   part of it should be retained. It is not so that the origin of a faith,
   which has transformed the world, can be explained. But we have here
   another evidence of the fact, that objections which, when regarded as
   part of a connected system, seem so formidable to some, utterly break
   down, when each narrative is carefully examined in detail.

   There are other circumstances in this history, which require at least
   passing consideration. Of these the principal are the time when the
   servants of the court-officer met him, on his return journey, with the
   joyful tidings that his son lived; and, connected with it, the time
   when he began to do nicely;' [2048] [2049] and, lastly, that when the
   court-official' applied to Jesus. The two latter events were evidently
   contemporaneous. [2050] The exact time indicated by the servants as the
   commencement of the improvement is, Yesterday, at the seventh hour.'
   Now, however the Jewish servants may originally have expressed
   themselves, it seems impossible to assume, that St. John intended any
   other than the Roman notation of the civil day, or that he meant any
   other hour than 7 p.m. The opposite view, that it marks Jewish notation
   of time, or 1 p.m., is beset by almost unsurmountable difficulties.
   [2051] For it must be borne in mind, that, as the distance between
   Capernaum and Cana is about twenty-five miles, it would have been
   extremely difficult, if not impossible, for the courtier, leaving his
   home that morning, not only to have reached Cana, but to have had the
   interview with Jesus by 1 p.m. The difficulty is only increased, when
   we are asked to believe, that after such a journey the courtier had
   immediately set out on his return. But this is absolutely necessary for
   the theory, since a Jew would not have set out on such a journey after
   dusk. But farther, on the above supposition, the servants of the court
   official must have taken the road immediately, or very soon after, the
   improvement commenced. This is itself unlikely, and, indeed,
   counter-indicated by the terms of the conversation between the courtier
   and the servants, which imply that they had waited till they were sure
   that it was recovery, and not merely a temporary improvement. [2052]
   Again, on the theory combated, the servants, meeting the courtier,' as
   we must suppose, midway, if not near to Capernaum, would have said,
   Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him,' meaning thereby,
   that, as they spoke in the evening, when another Jewish day had begun,
   the fever had left him on the afternoon of the same day, although,
   according to Jewish reckoning, yesterday,' since 1 P.M. would be
   reckoned as the previous day. But it may be safely affirmed, that no
   Jew would have so expressed himself. If, on the evening of a day, they
   had referred to what had taken place five or six hours previously, at 1
   P.M., they would have said: At the seventh hour the fever left him;'
   and not Yesterday at the seventh hour.'

   It is needless to follow the matter further. We can understand how,
   leaving Capernaum in the morning, the interview with Jesus and the
   simultaneous cure of the child would have taken place about seven
   o'clock of the evening. Its result was, not only the restoration of the
   child, but that, no longer requiring to see signs and wonders, the man
   believed the word which Jesus had spoken unto him.' In this joyous
   assurance, which needed no more ocular demonstration, he went his way,'
   either to the hospitable home of a friend, or to some near
   lodging-place on the way, to be next day met by the gladsome tidings,
   that it had been to him according to his faith. As already noted, the
   whole morale of the history lies in this very matter, and it marks the
   spiritual receptiveness of the courtier, which, in turn, was the moral
   condition of his desire being granted. Again, we learn how, by the very
   granting of his desire, the spiritual object of Christ in the teaching
   of the courtier was accomplished, how, under certain spiritual
   conditions in him and upon him, the temporal benefit accomplished its
   spiritual object. And in this also, as in other points which will occur
   to the devout reader, there are lessons of deepest teaching to us, and
   for all times and circumstances.

   Whether this royal officer' was Chuza, Herod's steward, whose wife,
   under the abiding impression of this miracle to her child, afterwards
   humbly, gratefully ministered to Jesus, [2053] must remain undermined
   on this side time. Suffice it, to mark the progress in the royal
   officer' from belief in the power of Jesus to faith in His word, [2054]
   and thence to absolute faith in Him, [2055] with its blessed expansive
   effect on that whole household. And so are we ever led faithfully and
   effectually, yet gently, by His benefits, upwards from the lower stage
   of belief by what we see Him do, to that higher faith which is absolute
   and unseeing trust, springing from experimental knowledge of what He
   is.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [2013] St. John iv. 45.

   [2014] The history of the Baptist's imprisonment will be given in the
   sequel.

   [2015] St. Matt. iv. 12.

   [2016] St. Mark i. 14.

   [2017] St. Luke iv. 11.

   [2018] St. Matt. iv. 17.

   [2019] St. Mark i. 15.

   [2020] The origin, authorship, and occasion of the Synoptic Gospels and
   of that by St. John, as well as their interrelation, is discussed in
   Euseb. Hist. Eccles. iii. 24, the discussion being the more important
   that Eusebius throughout appeals for his statements to the testimony of
   the ancients.'

   [2021] St. John iv. 43-54.

   [2022] St. John iv. 45-54.

   [2023] St. Luke iv. 16-30.

   [2024] St. Matt. iv. 13-17; St. Mark i. 14, 15; St. Luke iv. 31, 32.

   [2025] St. John v. 1.

   [2026] St. Matt. iv.18-22 &c.

   [2027] St. Luke iv. 16.

   [2028] St. Luke iv. 15.

   [2029] St. Luke iv. 31; comp. St. Matt. iv. 13-16.

   [2030] St. John iv. 44.

   [2031] I cannot believe that the expression His own country,' refers to
   Judæa. Such an explanation is not only unnatural, but contrary to the
   usage of the expression dios (his own'). Comp. St. Matt. ix. 1; also
   St. John vii. 40-42. Strauss's arguments (Leben Jesu, i. p. 659) seem
   here conclusive.

   [2032] St. John ii. 1-11.

   [2033] St. Luke iv. 23.

   [2034] basiliks, used by Josephus in the general sense of officers in
   the service of Herod Antipas. Comp. Krebs, Obs. in N. Test. e Fl.
   Josepho, pp. 144, 145, who notes that the expression occurs 600 times
   in the writings of Josephus.

   [2035] Ber. 34 b; Jer. Ber. 9 d.

   [2036] The emphasis must lie on the word see,' yet not exclusively.
   Lücke's objections to this (Ev. Joh. i. p. 622) are not well founded.

   [2037] ver. 49.

   [2038] ver. 50.

   [2039] ver. 53.

   [2040] St. John i. vi. 50, 51.

   [2041] St. Matt. viii. 5 &c.; St. Luke vii. 1 &c.

   [2042] These will readily occur on comparison of the two narratives.
   Archdeacon Watkins (ad loc.) has grouped these under eight distinct
   particulars. Comp.  Lücke (Ev. Joh.) i. p. 626.

   [2043] So partially and hesitatingly Origen, Chrysostom, and more
   decidedly Theophilus, Euthymius, Irenoeus, and Eusebius. All modern
   negative critics hold this view; but Gfrörer regards the narrative of
   St. John, Strauss and Weiss that of St. Matthew, as the original
   account. And yet Keim ventures to assert: Ohne allen Zweifel (!) ist
   das die selbe Geschichte.'

   [2044] Alike Strauss and Keim discuss this at some length from the
   point of view of seeming contradiction between the reception of the
   heathen Centurion and the first refusal of the Syro-Phoenician woman.
   Keim's treatment of the whole subject seems to me inconsistent with
   itself.

   [2045] Keim, Jesu v. Nazara, II. i. pp. 179-185. I regret to say, that
   the language of Keim at p. 181 is among the most painful in his book.

   [2046] So Strauss, Leben Jesu, vol. ii. pp. 121, 122 (1st ed.).

   [2047] At least I so understand Keim, unless he means that the faith of
   the child alone brought about the cure, in which case there was no need
   for the father's journey. Keim naively asks, what objections there can
   be to this view, unless for the wording of St. John'? But the whole
   narrative is derived from that wording.'

   [2048] ver. 52.

   [2049] So literally; the A.V. has: began to amend.'

   [2050] ver. 53.

   [2051] The Jewish servants may have expressed the time according to
   Jewish notation, though in such a house in Galilee such might not have
   been the usual practice. However this be, we contend that St. John's
   notation of time was according to the Roman civil day, or rather
   according to that of Asia Minor.

   [2052] ver. 52.

   [2053] St. Luke viii. 3.

   [2054] ver. 50.

   [2055] ver. 53.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER X.
THE SYNAGOGUE AT NAZARETH - SYNAGOGUE-WORSHIP AND ARRANGEMENTS.

   (St. Luke iv. 16.)

   The stay in Cana, though we have no means of determining its length,
   was probably of only short duration. Perhaps the Sabbath of the same
   week already found Jesus in the Synagogue of Nazareth. We will not seek
   irreverently to lift the veil of sacred silence, which here, as
   elsewhere, the Gospel-narratives have laid over the Sanctuary of His
   inner Life. That silence is itself theopneustic, of Divine breathing
   and inspiration; it is more eloquent than any eloquence, a guarantee of
   the truthfulness of what is said. And against this silence, as the dark
   background, stands out as the Figure of Light the Person of the Christ.
   Yet, as we follow Jesus to the city of His Childhood and home of His
   humility, we can scarcely repress thoughts of what must have stirred
   His soul, as He once more entered the well-known valley, and beheld the
   scenes to each of which some early memory must have attached.

   Only a few months since He had left Nazareth, but how much that was
   all-decisive to Him, to Israel, and to the world had passed! As the
   lengthening shadows of Friday's sun closed around the quiet valley, He
   would hear the well-remembered double blast of the trumpet from the
   roof of the Synagogue-minister's house, proclaiming the advent of the
   holy day. [2056] Once more it sounded through the still summer-air, to
   tell all, that work must be laid aside. [2057] Yet a third time it was
   heard, ere the minister' put it aside close by where he stood, not to
   profane the Sabbath by carrying it; for now the Sabbath had really
   commenced, and the festive Sabbath-lamp was lit.

   Sabbath morn dawned, and early He repaired to that Synagogue where, as
   a Child, a Youth, a Man, He had so often worshipped in the humble
   retirement of His rank, sitting, not up there among the elders and the
   honoured, but far back. The old well-known faces were around Him, the
   old well-remembered words and services fell on His ear. How different
   they had always been to Him than to them, with whom He had thus mingled
   in common worship! And now He was again among them, truly a stranger
   among His own countrymen; this time, to be looked at, listened to,
   tested, tried, used or cast aside, as the case might be. It was the
   first time, [2058] so far as we know, that He taught in a Synagogue,
   and this Synagogue that of His own Nazareth.

   It was, surely, a wondrously linked chain of circumstances, which bound
   the Synagogue to the Church. Such a result could never have been
   foreseen, as that, what really was the consequence of Israel's
   dispersion, and, therefore, indirectly the punishment of their sin,
   should become the means of fulfilling Israel's world-mission. Another
   instance this, of how Divine judgment always bears in its bosom larger
   mercy; another illustration how the dying of Israel is ever life to the
   world; another manifestation of that supernatural Rule of God, in which
   all is rule, that is, law and order, and all the supernatural, bringing
   to pass, in the orderly succession of events, what at the outset would
   have seemed, and really is, miraculous. For the Synagogue became the
   cradle of the Church. Without it, as indeed without Israel's
   dispersion, the Church Universal would, humanely speaking, have been
   impossible, and the conversation of the Gentiles have required a
   succession of millennial miracles.

   That Synagogues originated during, or in consequence of the Babylonish
   captivity, is admitted by all. The Old Testament contains no allusion
   to their existence, [2059] and the Rabbinic attempts to trace them even
   to patriarchal times [2060] deserve, of course, no serious
   consideration. We can readily understand how during the long years of
   exile in Babylon, places and opportunities for common worship on
   Sabbaths and feast-days must have been felt almost a necessity. This
   would furnish, at least, the basis for the institution of the
   Synagogue. After the return to Palestine, and still more by the
   dispersed abroad,' such meeting-houses' (Battey Khenesiyoth, domus
   congregationum, Synagogues) would become absolutely requisite. Here
   those who were ignorant even of the language of the Old Testament would
   have the Scriptures read and targumed' to them. [2061] It was but
   natural that prayers, and, lastly, addresses, should in course of time
   be added. Thus the regular Synagogue, service would gradually arise;
   first on Sabbaths and on feast, or fast-days, then on ordinary days, at
   the same hours as, and with a sort of internal correspondence to, the
   worship of the Temple. The services on Mondays and Thursdays were
   special, these being the ordinary market-days, when the country-people
   came into the towns, and would avail themselves of the opportunity for
   bringing any case that might require legal decision before the local
   Sanhedrin, which met in the Synagogue, and consisted of its
   authorities. Naturally, these two days would be utilised to afford the
   country-people, who lived far from the Synagogues, opportunities for
   worship; [2062] and the services on those days were of a somewhat more
   elaborate character. Accordingly, Monday and Thursday were called the
   days of congregation' or Synagogue' (Yom ha-Kenisah).

   In another place [2063] it has been shown, how rapidly and generally
   the institution of Synagogues spread among the Jews of the Dispersion
   in all lands, and what important purposes they served. In Palestine
   they were scattered over the whole country, though it is only
   reasonable to suppose, that their number greatly increased after the
   destruction of the Temple, and this without crediting the Jewish legend
   as to their extraordinary number in certain cities, such as 480, or
   460, in Jerusalem. [2064] In the capital, and probably in some other
   large cities, there were not only several Synagogues, but these
   arranged according to nationalities, and even crafts. [2065] At the
   same time it deserves notice, that even in so important a place as
   Capernaum there seems either not to have been a Synagogue, or that it
   was utterly insignificant, till the want was supplied by the pious
   gentile centurion. [2066] This would seem to dispose of the question
   whether, as is generally assumed, a Jewish community in a place, if
   numbering ten heads of families, was obliged to build a Synagogue, and
   could enforce local taxation for the purpose. Such was undoubtedly the
   later Rabbinic ordinance, [2067] but there is no evidence that it
   obtained in Palestine, or in early times.

   Generally, of course, a community would build its own Synagogue, or
   else depend on the charitable assistance of neighbours, or on private
   munificence. If this failed, they might meet for worship in a private
   dwelling, a sort of Synagogue in the house.' [2068] For, in early times
   the institution would be much more simple than at a later period. In
   this, as in other respects, we must remember that later Jewish
   arrangements afford no evidence of those which prevailed while the
   Temple stood, nor yet the ordinances of the chiefs of Babylonian
   Academies of the customs existing in Palestine, and, lastly, that the
   Rabbinic directions mark rather an ideal than the actual state of
   things. Thus - to mention an instance of some importance, because the
   error has been so often repeated as to be generally believed, and to
   have misled recent explorers in Palestine - there is no evidence that
   in Palestine Synagogues always required to be built in the highest
   situation in a town, or, at least, so as to overtop the other houses.
   To judge from a doubtful [2069] passage in the Talmud, [2070] this
   seems to have been the case in Persia, while a later notice [2071]
   appeals in support of it to Prov. viii. 2. But even where the Jews were
   most powerful and influential, the rule could not have been universally
   enforced, although later Rabbis lay it down as a principle. [2072]
   Hence, the inference, that the Galilean Synagogues lately excavated
   cannot date from an early period, because they are not in prominent
   positions, is erroneous. [2073]

   But there were two rules observed, which seem to have been enforced
   from early times. One of these enjoined, that a Synagogue should not be
   erected in a place, unless it contained ten Batlanim, [2074] or men of
   leisure, who could devote their time to the Synagogue worship and
   administration. [2075] This was proved by the consideration, that
   common worship implied a congregation, which, according to Jewish Law,
   must consist of at least ten men. [2076] Another, and perhaps more
   important rule was as to the direction in which Synagogues were to be
   built, and which worshippers should occupy during prayer. Here two
   points must be kept in view: 1st. Prayer towards the east was
   condemned, on the ground of the false worship towards the east
   mentioned in Ezek. viii. 16. [2077] 2ndly. The prevailing direction in
   Palestine was towards the west, as in the Temple. Thus, we read [2078]
   that the entrance into the Synagogue was by the east, as the entrance
   through the Beautiful Gate into the Sanctuary. This, however, may
   refer, not to the door, but to the passage (aisle) into the interior of
   the building. In other places, [2079] the advice is simply given to
   turn towards Jerusalem, in whatever direction it be. In general,
   however, it was considered that since the Shekhinah was everywhere in
   Palestine, direction was not of paramount importance.

   If we combine these notices, and keep in view the general desire to
   conform to the Temple arrangements, the ruined Synagogues lately
   excavated in the north of Galilee seem, in a remarkable manner, to meet
   the Talmudic requirements. With the exception of one (at 'Irbid, which
   has its door to the east), they all have their entrances on the south.
   We conjecture that the worshippers, imitating in this the practice in
   the Temple, made a circuit, either completely to the north, or else
   entered at the middle of the eastern aisle, where, in the ground-plan
   of the Synagogue at Capernaum, which seems the most fully preserved
   ruin, two pillars in the colonnade are wanting. [2080] The so-called
   Ark' would be at the south end; the seats for the elders and honourable
   in front of it, facing the people, and with their back to the Ark.
   [2081] Here two pillars are wanting in the Synagogue at Capernaum. The
   lectern of the reader would be in the centre, close to where the
   entrance was into the double colonnade which formed the Synagogue,
   where, at present, a single pillar is marked in the plan of the
   Capernaum Synagogue; while the women's gallery was at the north end,
   where two columns and pillars of peculiar shape, which may have
   supported the gallery, are traceable. For it is a mistake to suppose
   that the men and women sat in opposite aisles, separated by a low wall.
   Philo notices, indeed, this arrangement in connection with the
   Therapeutæ; [2082] but there is no indication that the practice
   prevailed in the Synagogues, or in Palestine.

   figure 3

      Figure 3a.


   We can now, with the help given by recent excavations, from a
   conception of these ancient Synagogues. The Synagogue is built of the
   stone of the country. On the lintels over the doors there are various
   ornamentations - a seven-branched candlestick, an open flower between
   two Paschal lambs, or vine-leaves with bunches of grapes, or, as at
   Capernaum, a pot of manna between representations of Aaron's rod. Only
   glancing at the internal decorations of mouldings or cornice, we notice
   that the inside plan is generally that of two double colonnades, which
   seem to have formed the body of the Synagogue, the aisles east and west
   being probably used as passages. The intercolumnar distance is very
   small, never greater than 9½ feet. [2083] The two corner columns at the
   northern end invariably have their two exterior faces square like
   pillars, and the two interior ones formed by half-engaged pillars.'
   Here we suppose the women's gallery to have risen. The flooring is
   formed of slabs of white limestone; [2084] the walls are solid (from 2
   even to 7 feet in thickness), and well built of stones, rough in the
   exterior, but plastered in the interior. The Synagogue is furnished
   with sufficient windows to admit light. The roof is flat, the columns
   being sometimes connected by blocks of stone, on which massive rafters
   rest.

   Entering by the door at the southern end, and making the circuit to the
   north, we take our position in front of the women's gallery. These
   colonnades form the body of the Synagogue. [2085] At the south end,
   facing north, is a movable Ark,' containing the sacred rolls of the Law
   and the Prophets. It is called the Holy Chest or Ark, Aron haqqodesh
   (to call it simply aron' was sinful), [2086] but chiefly the Tebhah,
   Ark. [2087] It was made movable, so that it might be carried out, as on
   public fasts. [2088] Steps generally led up to it (the Darga or
   Saphsel). In front hangs (this probably from an early period) the Vilon
   or curtain. But the Holy Lamp is never wanting, in imitation of the
   undying light in the Temple. [2089] Right before the Ark, and facing
   the people, are the seats of honour, for the rulers of the Synagogue
   and the honourable. [2090] The place for him who leads the devotion of
   the people is also in front of the Ark, either elevated, or else, to
   mark humility, lowered. [2091] In the middle of the Synagogue (so
   generally) is the Bima, [2092] or elevation, on which there is the
   Luach, or desk, [2093] from which the Law is read. This is also called
   the Kurseya, chair, or throne, [2094]   or Kissé, and Pergulah. Those
   who are to read the Law will stand, while he who is to preach or
   deliver an address will sit. Beside them will be the Methurgeman,
   either to interpret, or to repeat aloud, what is said.

   As yet the Synagogue is empty, and we may therefore call to mind what
   we ought to think, and how to bear ourselves. To neglect attendance on
   its services would not only involve personal guilt, but bring
   punishment upon the whole district. Indeed, to be effectual, prayer
   must be offered in the Synagogue. [2095] At the same time, the more
   strict ordinances in regard to the Temple, such as, that we must not
   enter it carrying a staff, nor with shoes, nor even dust on the feet,
   nor with scrip or purse, do not apply to the Synagogue, as of
   comparatively inferior sanctity. [2096] However, the Synagogue must not
   be made a thoroughfare. We must not behave lightly in it. [2097] We may
   not joke, laugh, eat, talk, dress, nor resort there for shelter from
   sun or rain. Only Rabbis and their disciples, to whom so many things
   are lawful, and who, indeed, must look upon the Synagogue as if it were
   their own dwelling, may eat, drink, perhaps even sleep there. Under
   certain circumstances, also, the poor and strangers may be fed there.
   [2098] But in general, the Synagogue must be regarded as consecrated to
   God. Even if a new one be built, care must be taken not to leave the
   old edifice till the other is finished. Money collected for the
   building may, in cases of necessity, be used for other purposes, but
   things dedicated for it are inalienable by sale. A Synagogue may be
   converted into an Academy, because the latter is regarded as more
   sacred, but not vice versa. Village Synagogues may be disposed of,
   under the direction of the local Sanhedrin, provided the locale be not
   afterwards used for incongruous purposes, such as public baths, a
   wash-house, a tannery, &c. But town Synagogues are inalienable, because
   strangers may have contributed to them; and, even if otherwise, they
   have a right to look for some place of worship. At the same time, we
   must bear in mind that this rule had its exceptions; notably that, at
   one time, the guild of coppersmiths in Jerusalem sold their Synagogue.
   [2099]

   All this, irrespective of any Rabbinic legends, shows with what
   reverence these houses of congregation' were regarded. And now the
   weekly Sabbath, the pledge between Israel and God, had once more come.
   To meet it as a bride or queen, each house was adorned on the Friday
   evening. The Sabbath lamp was lighted; the festive garments put on; the
   table provided with the best which the family could afford; and the
   Qiddush, or benediction, spoken over the cup of wine, which, as always,
   was mixed with water. [2100] And as Sabbath morning broke, they
   hastened with quick steps to the Synagogue; for such was the Rabbinic
   rule in going, while it was prescribed to return with slow and
   lingering steps. Jewish punctiliousness defined every movement and
   attitude in prayer. If those rules were ever observed in their
   entirety, devotion must have been crushed under their weight. But we
   have evidence that, in the time of our Lord, and even later, there was
   much personal freedom left; [2101] for, not only was much in the
   services determined by the usage of each place, but the leader of the
   devotions might preface the regular service by free prayer, or insert
   such between certain parts of the liturgy.

   We are now in the Nazareth Synagogue. The officials are all assembled.
   The lowest of these is the Chazzan, or minister, [2102] who often acts
   also as schoolmaster. For this reason, and because the conduct of the
   services may frequently devolve upon him, great care is taken in his
   selection. He must be not only irreproachable, but, if possible, his
   family also. Humility, modesty, knowledge of the Scriptures,
   distinctness and correctness in pronunciation, simplicity and neatness
   in dress, and an absence of self-assertion, are qualities sought for,
   and which, in some measure, remind us of the higher qualifications
   insisted on by St. Paul in the choice of ecclesiastical officers. Then
   there are the elders (Zeqenim), or rulers (rchontes), whose chief is
   the Archisynagogos, or Rosh ha-Keneseth. These are the rulers
   (Parnasim) or shepherds (poimnes). There can be no question (from the
   inscriptions on the Jewish tombstones in Rome), [2103] that the
   Archisynagogos [2104] was chief among the rulers, and that, whether or
   not there was, as in the community at Rome, and probably also among the
   dispersed in the West, besides him, a sort of political chief of the
   elders, or Gerousiarch. [2105] All the rulers of the Synagogue were
   duly examined as to their knowledge, and ordained to the office. They
   formed the local Sanhedrin or tribunal. But their election depended on
   the choice of the congregation; and absence of pride, as also
   gentleness and humility, are mentioned as special qualifications.
   [2106] Sometimes the office was held by regular teachers. [2107]

   If, as in Rome, there was an apparently unordained eldership
   (Gerousia), it had probably only the charge of outward affairs, and
   acted rather as a committee of management. Indeed, in foreign
   Synagogues, the rulers seem to have been chosen, sometimes for a
   specified period, at others for life. But, although it may be admitted
   that the Archisynagogos, or chief ruler of the Synagogue, was only the
   first among his equals, there can be no doubt that the virtual rule of
   the Synagogue devolved upon him. He would have the superintendence of
   Divine service, and, as this was not conducted by regular officials, he
   would in each case determine who were to be called up to read from the
   Law and the Prophets, who was to conduct the prayers, and act as
   Sheliach Tsibbur, or messenger of the congregation, and who, if any,
   was to deliver an address. He would also see to it that nothing
   improper took place in the Synagogue, [2108] and that the prayers were
   properly conducted. In short, the supreme care, both of the services
   and of the building, would devolve upon him. To these regular officials
   we have to add those who officiated during the service, the Sheliach
   Tsibbur, or delegate of the congregation - who, as its mouthpiece,
   conducted the devotions - the Interpreter or Methurgeman, and those who
   were called on to read in the Law and the Prophets, or else to preach.

   We are now in some measure prepared to follow the worship on that
   Sabbath in Nazareth. On His entrance into the Synagogue, or perhaps
   before that, the chief ruler would request Jesus to act for that
   Sabbath as the Sheliach Tsibbur. For according to the Mishnah, [2109]
   the person who read in the Synagogue the portion from the Prophets, was
   also expected to conduct the devotions, at least in greater part.
   [2110] If this rule was enforced at that time, then Jesus would ascend
   the Bima, and standing at the lectern, begin the service by two
   prayers, which in their most ancient form, as they probably obtained in
   the time of our Lord, were as follows: -

   I. Blessed be Thou, O Lord, King of the world, Who formest the light
   and createst the darkness, Who makest peace, and createst everything;
   Who, in mercy, givest light to the earth, and to those who dwell upon
   it, and in Thy goodness, day by day, and every day, renewest the works
   of creation. Blessed be the Lord our God for the glory of His
   handiworks, and for the light-giving lights which He has made for His
   praise. Selah. Blessed be the Lord our God, Who has formed the lights.'

   II. With great love hast Thou loved us, O Lord our God, and with much
   overflowing pity hast Thou pitied us, our Father and our King. For the
   sake of our fathers who trusted in Thee, and Thou taughtest them the
   statutes of life, have mercy upon us, and teach us. Enlighten our eyes
   in Thy Law; cause our hearts to cleave to Thy commandments; unite our
   hearts to love and fear Thy Name, and we shall not be put to shame,
   world without end. For Thou art a God Who preparest salvation, and us
   hast Thou chosen from among all nations and tongues, and hast in truth
   brought us near to Thy great Name - Selah - that we may lovingly praise
   Thee and Thy Unity. Blessed be the Lord, Who in love chose His people
   Israel.'

   After this followed what may be designated as the Jewish Creed, called
   the Shema, from the word shema,' or hear,' with which it begins. It
   consisted of three passages from the Pentateuch, [2111] so arranged, as
   the Mishnah notes, [2112] that the worshipper took upon himself first
   the yoke of the Kingdom of Heaven, and only after it the yoke of the
   commandments; and in the latter, again, first those that applied to
   night and day, and then those that applied to the day only. They were
   probably but later determinations, conceived in a spirit of hostility
   to what was regarded as the heresy of Christianity, which insisted
   that, as the first sentence in the Shema, asserting the Unity of God,
   was the most important, special emphasis should be laid on certain
   words in it. The recitation of the Shema was followed by this prayer: -

   True it is that Thou art Jehovah, our God, and the God of our fathers,
   our King, and the King of our fathers, our Saviour, and the Saviour of
   our fathers, our Creator, the Rock of our Salvation, our Help and our
   Deliverer. Thy Name is from everlasting, and there is no God beside
   Thee. A new song did they that were delivered sing to Thy Name by the
   sea-shore; together did all praise and own Thee King, and say, Jehovah
   shall reign, world without end! Blessed be the God Who saveth Israel.'

   This prayer finished, he who officiated took his place before the Ark,
   and there repeated what formed the prayer in the strictest sense, or
   certain Eulogies' or Benedictions. These are eighteen, or rather
   nineteen, in number, and date from different periods. But as on
   Sabbaths only the three first and the three last of them, which are
   also those undoubtedly of greatest age, were repeated, and between them
   certain other prayers inserted, only these six, with which the series
   respectively began and ended, need here find a place. The first
   Benediction was said with bent body. It was as follows: -

   I. Blessed be the Lord our God, and the God of our fathers, the God of
   Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob; the Great, the
   Mighty, and the Terrible God, the Most High God, Who showeth mercy and
   kindness. Who createth all things, Who remembereth the gracious
   promises to the fathers, and bringeth a Saviour to their children's
   children, for His own Name's sake, in love. O King, Helper, Saviour,
   and Shield! Blessed art Thou, O Jehovah, the Shield of Abraham.'

   II. Thou O Lord, art mighty for ever; Thou. Who quickenest the dead,
   art mighty to save. In Thy mercy Thou preservest the living, Thou
   quickenest the dead; in Thine abundant pity Thou bearest up those who
   fall, and healest those who are diseased, and loosest those who are
   bound, and fulfillest Thy faithful word to those who sleep in the dust.
   Who is like unto Thee, Lord of strength, and who can be compared to
   Thee, Who killest and makest alive, and causest salvation to spring
   forth? And faithful art Thou to give life to the dead. Blessed art
   Thou, Jehovah, Who quickenest the dead!'

   III. Thou art Holy, and Thy name is Holy. Selah. Blessed art Thou
   Jehovah God, the Holy One.'

   After this, such prayers were inserted as were suited to the day. And
   here it may be noticed that considerable latitude was allowed. For,
   although [2113] it was not lawful to insert any petition in the three
   first or the three last Eulogies, but only in the intermediate
   Benedictions, in practice this was certainly not observed. Thus,
   although, by the rubric, prayer for rain and dew was to be inserted up
   to the season of the Passover in the ninth Benediction, yet
   occasionally reference to this seems also to have been made in the
   second Benediction, as connected with the quickening of that which is
   dead. [2114] Nay, some Rabbis went so far as to recommend a brief
   summary of the eighteen Eulogies, while yet another (R. Eliezer)
   repudiated all fixed forms of prayer. [2115] But gradually, and
   especially after the insertion of the well-known prayer against the
   heretics or rather Christian converts (Eulogy XI. [2116] ), the present
   order of the eighteen Eulogies (Amidah) seems to have been established.
   Both the Jerusalem [2117] and the Babylon Talmud [2118] contain much on
   this subject which is of very great interest. [2119]

    Following the order of the service, we now come to the concluding
   Eulogies, which were as follows: -

    XVII. (XVI.) Take gracious pleasure, O Jehovah our God, in Thy people
   Israel and in their prayers, and in love accept the burnt-offerings of
   Israel, and their prayers with Thy good pleasure, and may the services
   of Thy people be ever acceptable unto Thee. And O that our eyes may see
   it, as Thou turnest in mercy to Zion. Blessed be Thou, O Jehovah, Who
   restoreth His Shekhinah to Zion.'

   XVIII. (XVII.) In saying this Eulogy, which was simply one of thanks,
   it was ordered that all should bend down. It was as follows: - We give
   praise to Thee, because Thou art He, Jehovah, our God, and the God of
   our fathers, for ever and ever. The Rock of our life, the Shield of our
   salvation, Thou art He, from generation to generation. We laud Thee,
   and declare Thy praise. For our lives which are bound up in Thine Hand,
   for our souls which are committed to Thee, and for Thy wonders which
   are with us every day and for Thy marvellous deeds and Thy goodnesses
   which are at all seasons, evening, and morning, and midday - Thou
   Gracious One, for Thy compassions never end, Thou Pitying One, for Thy
   mercies never cease, for ever do we put our trust in Thee. And for all
   this, blessed and exalted be Thy Name, our King, always, world without
   end. And all the living bless Thee - Selah - and praise Thy Name in
   truth, O God, our Salvation and our Help. Selah. Blessed art Thou,
   Jehovah. The Gracious One is Thy Name, and to Thee it is pleasant to
   give praise.'

   After this the priests, if any were in the Synagogue, spoke the
   blessing, elevating their hands up to the shoulders [2120] (in the
   Temple above the head). This was called the lifting up of hands. [2121]
   In the Synagogue the priestly blessing was spoken in three sections,
   the people each time responding by an Amen. [2122] Lastly, in the
   Synagogue, the word Adonai' was substituted for Jehovah. [2123] [2124]
   If no descendants of Aaron were present, the leader of the devotions
   repeated the usual priestly benediction. [2125] After the benediction
   followed the last Eulogy, which, in its abbreviated form (as presently
   used in the Evening Service), is as follows: -

   XIX. (XVIII.) O bestow on Thy people Israel great peace for ever. For
   Thou art King, and Lord of all peace. And it is good in Thine eyes to
   bless Thy people Israel at all times and at every hour with Thy peace.
   Blessed art Thou, Jehovah, Who blesseth His people Israel with peace!'

   It was the practice of leading Rabbis, probably dating from very early
   times, to add at the close of this Eulogy certain prayers of their own,
   either fixed or free, of which the Talmud gives specimens. From very
   early times also, the custom seems to have obtained that the
   descendants of Aaron, before pronouncing the blessing, put off their
   shoes. In the benediction the priests turned towards the people, while
   he who led the ordinary prayers stood with his back to the people,
   looking towards the Sanctuary. The superstition, that it was unlawful
   to look at the priests while they spoke the blessing, [2126] must be
   regarded as of later date. According to the Mishnah, they who pronounce
   the benediction must have no blemish on their hands, face, or feet, so
   as not to attract attention; but this presumably refers to those
   officiating in the Temple. [2127] It is a curious statement, that
   priests from certain cities in Galilee were not allowed to speak the
   words of blessing, because their pronunciation of the gutturals was
   misleading. [2128] According to the Jerusalem Talmud, [2129] moral
   blemishes, or even sin, did not disqualify a priest from pronouncing
   the benediction, since it was really God, and not man, Who gave the
   blessing. [2130] On the other hand, strict sobriety was insisted on on
   such occasions. Later Judaism used the priestly benediction as a means
   for counteracting the effects of evil dreams. The public prayers closed
   with an Amen, spoken by the congregation.

   The liturgical part being thus completed, one of the most important,
   indeed, what had been the primary object of the Synagogue service,
   began. The Chazzan, or minister, approached the Ark, and brought out a
   roll of the Law. It was taken from its case (têq, teqah), and unwound
   from those cloths (mitpachoth) which held it. The time had now come for
   the reading of portions from the Law and the Prophets. On the Sabbath,
   at least seven persons were called upon successively to read portions
   from the Law, none of them consisting of less than three verses. On the
   days of congregation' (Monday and Thursday), three persons were called
   up; on New Moon's Day, and on the intermediate days of a festive week,
   four; on feast days, five; and on the Day of Atonement, six. [2131] No
   doubt, there was even in ancient times a lectionary, though certainly
   not that presently in use, which occupies exactly a year. [2132] On the
   contrary, the Palestinian lectionary occupied three [2133] or,
   according to some, three and a half years, [2134] half a Sabbatic
   period. Accordingly, we find that the Massorah divides the Pentateuch
   into 154 sections. In regard to the lectionary of three and a half
   years we read of 175 sections. It requires, however, to be borne in
   mind, that preparatory to, and on certain festive days, the ordinary
   reading was interrupted, and portions substituted which bore on the
   subject of the feast. Possibly, at different periods different cycles
   may have obtained - those for three and a half years, three years, and
   even for one year. [2135] [2136] According to the Talmud, [2137] a
   descendant of Aaron was always called up first to the reading; [2138]
   then followed a Levite, and afterwards five ordinary Israelites. As
   this practice, as well as that of priestly benediction, [2139] has been
   continued in the Synagogue from father to son, it is possible still to
   know who are descendants of Aaron, and who Levites. The reading of the
   Law was both preceded and followed by brief Benedictions.

   Upon the Law followed a section from the Prophets, [2140] the so-called
   Haphtarah. [2141]   The origin of this practice is not known, although
   it is one that must evidently have met a requirement on the part of the
   worshippers. Certain it is, that the present lectionary from the
   Prophets did not exist in early times; nor does it seem unlikely that
   the choice of the passage was left to the reader himself. At any rate,
   as regarded the ordinary Sabbath days, [2142] we are told that a reader
   might omit one or more verses, provided there was no break. As the
   Hebrew was not generally understood, the Methurgeman, or Interpreter,
   stood by the side of the reader, [2143] and translated into the Aramæan
   verse by verse, and in the section from the Prophets, or Haphtarah,
   after every three verses. [2144] But the Methurgeman was not allowed to
   read his translation, lest it might popularly be regarded as
   authoritative. This may help us in some measure to understand the
   popular mode of Old Testament quotations in the New Testament. So long
   as the substance of the text was given correctly, the Methurgeman might
   paraphrase for better popular understanding. Again, it is but natural
   to suppose, that the Methurgeman would prepare himself for his work by
   such materials as he would find to hand, among which, of course, the
   translation of the LXX. would hold a prominent place. This may in part
   account alike for the employment of the LXX., and for its Targumic
   modifications, in the New Testament quotations.

   The reading of the section from the Prophets (the Haphtarah) was in
   olden times immediately followed by an address, discourse, or sermon
   (Derashah), that is, where a Rabbi capable of giving such instruction,
   or a distinguished stranger, was present. Neither the leader of the
   devotions (the delegate of the congregation' in this matter, or
   Sheliach Tsibbur), nor the Methurgeman, nor yet the preacher, required
   ordination. [2145] That was reserved for the rule of the congregation,
   whether in legislation or administration, doctrine or discipline.

   The only points required in the preacher were the necessary
   qualifications, both mental and moral. [2146] When a great Rabbi
   employed a Methurgeman to explain to the people his sermon, he would,
   of course, select him for the purpose. Such an interpreter was also
   called Amora, or speaker. Perhaps the Rabbi would whisper to him his
   remarks, while he would repeat them aloud; or else he would only
   condescend to give hints, which the Amora would amplify; or he would
   speak in Hebrew, and the Amora translate it into Aramæan, Greek, Latin,
   or whatever the language of the people might be, for the sermon must
   reach the people in the vulgar tongue. The Amora would also, at the
   close of the sermon, answer questions or meet objections. If the
   preacher was a very great man, he would, perhaps, not condescend to
   communicate with the Amora directly, but employ one of his students as
   a middleman. This was also the practice when the preacher was in
   mourning for a very near relative - for so important was his office
   that it must not be interrupted, even by the sorrows or the religious
   obligations of mourning.' [2147]

   Indeed, Jewish tradition uses the most extravagant terms to extol the
   institution of preaching. To say that it glorified God, and brought men
   back, or at least nearer to Him, or that it quenched the soul's thirst,
   was as nothing. The little city, weak and besieged, but delivered by
   the wise man in it, [2148] served as symbol of the benefit which the
   preacher conferred on his hearers. The Divine Spirit rested on him, and
   his office conferred as much merit on him as if he had offered both the
   blood and the fat upon the altar of burnt offering. [2149] No wonder
   that tradition traced the institution back to Moses, who had directed
   that, previous to, and on the various festivals, addresses, explanatory
   of their rites, and enforcing them, should be delivered to the people.
   [2150] The Targum Jonathan assumes the practice in the time of the
   Judges; [2151] the men of the Great Synagogue are, of course, credited
   with it, and Shemayah and Abhtalyon are expressly designated as
   preachers.' [2152] How general the practice was in the time of Jesus
   and His Apostles, the reader of the New Testament need not be told, and
   its witness is fully borne out by Josephus [2153] and Philo. [2154]
   Both the Jerusalem and the Babylon Talmud assume it as so common, that
   in several passages Sabbath-observance' and the Sabbath-sermon' are
   identified. Long before Hillel we read of Rabbis preaching - in Greek
   or Latin - in the Jewish Synagogues of Rome, [2155] just as the
   Apostles preached in Greek in the Synagogues of the dispersed. That
   this practice, and the absolute liberty of teaching, subject to the
   authority of the chief ruler of the Synagogue,' formed important links
   in the Christianisation of the world, is another evidence of that
   wonder-working Rule of God, which brings about marvellous results
   through the orderly and natural succession of events - nay, orders
   these means with the view to their ultimate issue.

   But this is not all. We have materials for drawing an accurate picture
   of the preacher, the congregation, and the sermon, as in those days. We
   are, of course, only speaking of the public addresses in the Synagogues
   on Sabbaths - not of those delivered at other times or in other places.
   Some great Rabbi, or famed preacher, or else a distinguished stranger,
   is known to be in the town. He would, of course, be asked by the ruler
   of the Synagogue to deliver a discourse. But who is a great preacher?
   We know that such a reputation was much coveted, and conferred on its
   possessor great distinction. The popular preacher was a power, and
   quite as much an object of popular homage and flattery as in our days.
   Many a learned Rabbi bitterly complained on finding his ponderous
   expositions neglected, while the multitude pushed and crowded into the
   neighbouring Synagogue to hear the declamations of some shallow popular
   Haggadist. [2156] And so it came, that many cultivated this branch of
   theology. When a popular preacher was expected, men crowded the area of
   the Synagogue, while women filled the gallery. [2157] On such
   occasions, there was the additional satisfaction of feeling that they
   had done something specially meritorious in running with quick steps,
   and crowding into the Synagogue. [2158] For, was it not to carry out
   the spirit of Hos. vi. 3; xi. 10 - at least, as Rabbinically
   understood? Even grave Rabbis joined in this pursuit to know the Lord,'
   and one of them comes to the somewhat caustic conclusion, that the
   reward of a discourse is the haste.' [2159] However, more unworthy
   motives sometimes influenced some of the audience, and a Talmudic
   passage [2160]   traces the cause of many fasts to the meetings of the
   two sexes on such occasions.

   The type of a popular preacher was not very different from what in our
   days would form his chief requisites. He ought to have a good figure,
   [2161] a pleasant expression, and melodious voice (his words ought to
   be like those of the bride to the bridegroom'), fluency, speech sweet
   as honey,' pleasant as milk and honey' - finely sifted like fine
   flour,' a diction richly adorned, like a bride on her wedding day;' and
   sufficient confidence in his own knowledge and self-assurance never to
   be disconcerted. Above all he must be conciliatory, and avoid being too
   personal. Moses had addressed Israel as rebellious and hard-hearted,
   and he was not allowed to bring them into the land of promise. Elijah
   had upbraided them with having broken the covenant, and Elisha was
   immediately appointed his successor. Even Isaiah had his lips touched
   with burning coals, because he spoke of dwelling among a people of
   sinful lips. [2162] [2163] As for the mental qualifications of the
   preacher, he must know his Bible well. As a bride knows properly to
   make use of her twenty-four ornaments, so must the preacher of the
   twenty-four books of the Bible. He must carefully prepare his subject -
   he is to hear himself' before the people hear him. But whatever else he
   may be or do, he must be attractive. [2164] In earlier times the sermon
   might have consisted of a simple exposition of some passages from
   Scripture, or the Book of Sirach, which latter was treated and quoted
   by some of the Rabbis almost as if it had been canonical. [2165] But
   this, or the full discussion of a single text [2166] ({hebrew}, to
   bore), would probably not be so attractive as the adaptation of a text
   to present circumstances, or even its modification and alteration for
   such purposes. There were scarcely bounds to the liberties taken by the
   preacher. He would divide a sentence, cut off one or two syllables from
   a word and join them to the next, so producing a different meaning, or
   giving a new interpretation to a text. Perhaps the strangest method was
   that of introducing Greek words and expressions into the Hebrew, and
   this not only to give a witty repartee, [2167] but in illustration of
   Scripture. [2168] Nay, many instances occur, in which a Hebrew word is,
   from the similarity of its sound with the Greek, rendered as if it were
   actually Greek, and thus a new meaning is given to a passage. [2169]

   If such licence was taken, it seems a comparatively small thing that a
   doctrine was derived from a word, a particle, or even a letter. But, as
   already stated, the great point was to attract the hearers. Parables,
   stories, allegories, witticisms, strange and foreign words, absurd
   legends, in short, anything that might startle an audience, was
   introduced. [2170] Sometimes a discourse was entirely Haggadic; at
   others, the Haggadah served to introduce the Halakhah. Sometimes the
   object of the preacher was purely homiletical; at others, he dealt
   chiefly with the explanation of Scripture, or of the rites and meaning
   of festivals. A favourite method was that which derived its name from
   the stringing together of pearls (Charaz), when a preacher, having
   quoted a passage or section from the Pentateuch, strung on to it
   another and like-sounding, or really similar, from the Prophets and the
   Hagiographa. Or else he would divide a sentence, generally under three
   heads, and connect with each of the clauses a separate doctrine, and
   then try to support it by Scripture. It is easy to imagine to what
   lengths such preachers might go in their misinterpretation and
   misrepresentations of the plain text of Holy Scripture. And yet a
   collection of short expositions (the Pesiqta), which, though not dating
   from that period, may yet fairly be taken as giving a good idea of this
   method of exposition, contains not a little that is fresh, earnest,
   useful, and devotional. It is interesting to know that, at the close of
   his address, the preacher very generally referred to the great
   Messianic hope of Israel. The service closed with a short prayer, or
   what we would term an ascription.'

   We can now picture to ourselves the Synagogue, its worship, and
   teaching. We can see the leader of the people's devotions as (according
   to Talmudic direction) he first refuses, with mock-modesty, the honour
   conferred on him by the chief ruler; then, when urged, prepares to go;
   and when pressed a third time, goes up with slow and measured steps to
   the lectern, and then before the Ark. We can imagine how one after
   another, standing and facing the people, unrolls and holds in his hand
   a copy of the Law or of the Prophets, and reads from the Sacred Word,
   the Methurgeman interpreting. Finally, we can picture it, how the
   preacher would sit down and begin his discourse, none interrupting him
   with questions till he had finished, when a succession of objections,
   answers, or inquiries might await the Amora, if the preacher had
   employed such help. And help it certainly was not in many cases, to
   judge by the depreciatory and caustic remarks, which not unfrequently
   occur, as to the manners, tone, vanity, self-conceit, and silliness of
   the Amora [2171] [2172] who, as he stood beside the Rabbi, thought far
   more of attracting attention and applause to himself, then of
   benefitting his hearers. Hence some Rabbis would only employ special
   and trusted interpreters of their own, who were above fifty years of
   age. [2173] In short, so far as the sermon was concerned, the
   impression it produced must have been very similar to what we know the
   addresses of the monks in the Middle Ages to have wrought. All the
   better can we understand, even from the human aspect, how the teaching
   of Jesus, alike in its substance and form, in its manner and matter,
   differed from that of the scribes; how multitudes would hang entranced
   on His word; and how, everywhere and by all, its impression was felt to
   be overpowering.

   But it is certainly not the human aspect alone which here claims our
   attention. The perplexed inquiry: Whence hath this man this wisdom and
   this knowledge?' must find another answer than the men of Nazareth
   could suggest, although to those in our days also who deny His Divine
   character, this must ever seem an unanswered and unanswerable question.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [2056] Shabb. 35 b.

   [2057] Jer. Shabb. xvii. p. 16 a.

   [2058] The remark in the Speaker's Commentary' (St. Luke iv. 16), that
   Jesus had been in the habit of expounding the Scriptures in Nazareth,
   is not only groundless, but inconsistent with the narrative. See ver.
   22. Still more strange is the supposition, that Jesus offered to read
   and to expound, and signified this intention by standing up. This might
   be done by any member of the congregation.' Most assuredly such would
   not be the case.

   [2059] This seems at first sight inconsistent with Ps. lxxiv.8. But the
   term rendered Synagogues' in the A. V. has never been used in that
   sense. The solution of the difficulty here comes to us through the LXX.
   Their rendering, katapasomen (let us make to cease), shows that in
   their Hebrew MSS. they read {hebrew}. If so, then the {hebrew} probably
   belonged to the next word, and the text would read: {hebrew}. Let us
   suppress altogether - the Sabbath and all the festive seasons in the
   land.' Comp. Ehrt, Abfass. Zeit. u. Abschl. d. Psalt. pp. 17-19.

   [2060] The introduction of morning, midday, and afternoon prayers is
   respectively ascribed to Abraham, Issac, and Jacob. The Targum of
   Onkelos and the Targum Ps., Jon. on Gen. xxv. 27 imply their existence
   in the time of Jacob. In B. Kama 82 a, and Jer. Megill. 75 a, its
   services are traced to the time of Moses. According to Sanh. 94 b,
   Synagogues existed in the time of Hezekiah. It is needless to follow
   the subject further. We take the present opportunity of adding, that,
   as the Rabbinic quotations in this chapter would be so numerous, only
   those will be given which refer to points hitherto unnoticed, or of
   special importance.

   [2061] The expressions Targum' and targuming' have been previously
   explained. The first indication of such paraphrasing in the vernacular
   is found in Neh. viii. 7, 8.

   [2062] Baba K. 82 a.

   [2063] See Book I. pp. 19, 77.

   [2064] These numbers, however, seem to have been symbolical. The number
   480 is, by Gimatreya, deduced from the word She that was full of'
   (meleathi) in Is. i. 21. Comp. Yalkut, vol. ii. p. 40 d, towards the
   end, or else 480 = 4 x 10 x 12.

   [2065] Comp. Megill. 26.

   [2066] St. Luke vii. 5.

   [2067] Maimonides, Hilc. Tephill, xi 1.

   [2068] Comp. Philem. 2.

   [2069] See the notes in Maimonides, Hilc. Tephill. xi. 2; p. 75 b.

   [2070] Shabb. 11 a.

   [2071] Tos. Meg. ed. Z iv. 23.

   [2072] Maimonides, Hilc. Tephill. xi. 2.

   [2073] Comp. Lieut. Kitchener's article on the Synagogues of Galilee
   (P.E.F. Report, July 1878, pp. 126 &c.). The inference, that they date
   from the beginning of the third century, when the Jews were in high
   favour with the Emperor Alexander Severus, is all the more ungrounded,
   that at that time, if ever, the Jewish authorities would strictly
   adhere to Talmudic directions as to the structure of Synagogues.

   [2074] From battel,' which here seems to have the same meaning as the
   Latin vacare rei, to have leisure for a thing.

   [2075] This is expressly stated in Jer. Megill. i. 6, p. 70 b, towards
   the end.

   [2076] Comp. Megill. iv. 3; Sanh. i. 6. That ten constituted a
   congregation was derived from Numb. xiv. 27. Similarly, it was thought
   to be implied in the fact, that if ten righteous men had been in Sodom,
   the city would not have been destroyed. But in case of necessity the
   number ten might be made up by a male child under age (Ber. R. 91, pp.
   160 a and b).

   [2077] Comp. Jer. Ber. iv. 5; Baba B. 25 a.

   [2078] Tos. Megill. iii. 3.

   [2079] Baba B. 25 a and b; Jer. Ber. iv. 5.

   [2080] On the next page we give a plan of the Synagogue excavated at
   Tell Hum (Capernaum). It is adapted from Capt. Wilson's plan in the P.
   E. F. Quarterly Statement, No. 2.

   [2081] Tos. Meg. iii. 3.

   [2082] De Vit. Contempl. 3 and 9, ed. Mang. ii. pp. 476, 482.

   [2083] Comp. Palestine Exploration Fund Report, Quarterly Statement,
   ii. p. 42 &c.

   [2084] Comp. Warren's Recovery of Jerusalem,' p. 343 &c.

   [2085] There is a curious passage in Ber. 8 a, which states that
   although there were thirteen Synagogues in Tiberias, it was the
   practice of the Rabbis only to pray between the columns where they
   studied.' This seems to imply that the Academy consisted also of
   colonnades. For it would be difficult to believe that all the supposed
   Synagogues excavated in Galilee were Academies.

   [2086] Shabb. 32 a.

   [2087] It was also called Argas and Qomtar (Megill. 26 b), but more
   generally Chest.

   [2088] Megill. 26 b; Taan. 15 a.

   [2089] Exod. xxvii. 20.

   [2090] St. Matt. xxiii. 6; Tos. Megill. ed. Z. iv. 21.

   [2091] Hence the expression yored liphney hattebhah,' and obhed liphney
   hattebhah.

   [2092] Seems also to have been called Kathedrah,' just as by our Lord
   (St. Matt. xxiii. 2). Comp. Buxtorf's Lexicon, p. 2164.

   [2093] Megill. 32 a.

   [2094] Megill. 26 b.

   [2095] Comp. Ber. 6 a and b; 8 a.

   [2096] Ber. 63 a.

   [2097] Tos. Megill. ed. Z. iii. 7.

   [2098] Pes. 101 a.

   [2099] Megill. 26 a.

   [2100] This, not for symbolical reasons, but probably on account of the
   strength of the wine. It is needless here to give the rules how the cup
   is to be held, or even the liturgical formula of the Qiddush. Comp.
   Jer. Ber. p. 3 c, d; vii. 6, p. 11 c, d.

   [2101] As to all this, and the great liberty in prayer, comp. Zunz,
   Gottesd. Vortr. d. Jud. pp. 368, 369, and notes a, b, and d; and Ritus
   des Synag. Gottesd. pp. 2 and 3.

   [2102] St. Luke iv. 20.

   [2103] Comp. Schürer, Gemeind. Verfass. in Rom, pp. 27 &c.

   [2104] In St. Mark v. 22, several Archisynagogoi seem to be spoken of.
   But the expression may only mean, as Weiss suggests, one of the order
   of the Archisynagogoi. The passage in Acts xiii. 15 is more difficult.
   Possibly it may depend upon local circumstances - the term
   Archisynagogoi including others beside the Archisynagogoi in the
   strictest sense, such as the Gerousiarchs of the Roman inscriptions.

   [2105] Schürer, u.s., pp. 18-20.

   [2106] Sanh. 92 a; Cag. 5 b.

   [2107] Gitt. 60 a.

   [2108] St. Luke xiii. 14.

   [2109] Megill. v. 5.

   [2110] Part of the Shema, and the whole of the Eulogies.

   [2111] Deut. vi. 4-9; xi. 13-21; Numb. xv. 37-41.

   [2112] Ber. ii. 2.

   [2113] According to Ber. 34 a.

   [2114] Ber. 33 a.

   [2115] There is even doubt, whether the exact words of at least some of
   the Benedictions were fixed at an early period. See Zunz, u. s.

   [2116] Originally the eulogies were eighteen in number. The addition of
   that against the heretics would have made them nineteen. Accordingly,
   Eulogy xv., which prayed for the coming of the Branch of David, was
   joined to the previous one in order to preserve the number eighteen.
   Comp. Jer. Ber. iv. 3. It is sadly characteristic that, together with a
   curse upon Christian converts, the Messianic hope of Israel should thus
   have been pushed into the background.

   [2117] Jer. Ber. iv. 3 to end.

   [2118] Ber. 33 a &c.

   [2119] For the sake of brevity, I can only here refer the reader to the
   passages.

   [2120] Sot. vii. 6.

   [2121] Comp. 1 Tim. ii. 8.

   [2122] Sot. 37 b 38 a.

   [2123] Siphré on Numb. par. 39, p. 12 a.

   [2124] Minor differences need not here be detailed, especially as they
   are by no means certain.

   [2125] Numb. vi. 23-26.

   [2126] Chag. 16 a.

   [2127] It seems also to have been the rule, that they must wash their
   hands before pronouncing the benediction (Sot. 39 a).

   [2128] Megill. 24.

   [2129] Jer. Gitt. v. 9. p 47 b; comp Duschak. Jüd. Kultus, p. 270.

   [2130] The question is discussed: first, who blessed the priests? and,
   secondly, what part God had in that benediction? The answer will
   readily be guessed (Chull. 49 a). In Siphré on Numbers, par. 43, the
   words are quoted (Numb. vi. 27) to show that the blessing came from
   God, and not from, although, through, the priests. In Bemidb. R. 11 ed.
   Warsh. iv. p. 40 a there is a beautiful prayer, in which Israel
   declares that it only needs the blessing of God, according to Deut.
   xxvi. 15, on which the answer comes, that although the priests bring
   the benediction, it is God Who stands and blesses His people.
   Accordingly, the benediction of the priests is only the symbol of God's
   blessing.

   [2131] For these different numbers very curious symbolical reasons are
   assigned (Megill. 23 a.)

   [2132] This division seems to have originated in Babylon. Comp. Zunz,
   Gottesd. Vortr. pp. 3, 4.

   [2133] Meg. 29 b.

   [2134] Jer. Shabb. xvi. 1; Sopher. xvi. 10.

   [2135] Comp. Megill. 31 b.

   [2136] Comp. Duschak, Gesch. des jüd. Cultus, pp. 251-258.

   [2137] Gitt. 59 b.

   [2138] Some of the leading Rabbis resisted this practice, and declared
   that a Rabbi who yielded to it deserved death (Megill. 28 a; comp.
   Megill. 22 a. See generally Duschak, u. s. p. 255.).

   [2139] Every descendant of Aaron in the Synagogue is bound to join in
   the act of benediction, on pain of forfeiture of the blessing on
   himself, according to Gen. xii. 3. Otherwise he transgresses three
   commands, contained in Numb. vi. 27 (Sot. 38 b). The present mode of
   dividing the fingers when pronouncing the blessing is justified by an
   appeal to Cant. ii. 9 (Bemidb. R. 11), although no doubt the origin of
   the practice is mystical.

   [2140] The reasons commonly assigned for it are unhistorical. Comp.
   Sketches of Jewish Life,' p. 278. The term Haphtarah, or rather
   Aphtarah and Aphtarta is derived from patar, to dismiss - either, like
   the Latin Missa, because it ended the general service, or else because
   the valedictory discourse, called Aphtarah, was connected with it.

   [2141] In a few places in Babylon (Shabb. 116 b), lessons from the
   Hagiographa were read at afternoon services. Besides, on Purim the
   whole Book of Esther was read.

   [2142] Megill iv. 4.

   [2143] Comp. 1 Cor. xiv. 27, 28.

   [2144] Megill. 24 a.

   [2145] At a later period, however, ordination seems to have been
   required for preaching. By a curious Rabbinic exegesis, the first
   clause of Prov. vii. 26 was applied to those who preached without
   ordination, and the second clause to those who were ordained and did
   not preach (Sot. 22 a).

   [2146] Thus, we have a saying of the first century You preach
   beautifully, but you do not practice beautifully' (Chag. 14 b; Yebam.
   63 b.)

   [2147] Moed K 21 a.

   [2148] Eccl. ix. 15.

   [2149] Ab. de R. Nath. 4.

   [2150] Meg. 4 a.

   [2151] Targum on Judg. v. 2, 9.

   [2152] Darshanin, Pes. 70 b.

   [2153] Ag. Ap. ii. 18.

   [2154] In Flacc., ed. Frcf., p. 972; de Vita Mos. p. 688; Leg. ad Caj.
   pp. 1014, 1035.

   [2155] For ex. Pes. 53 b.

   [2156] In Sot. 40 a we have an account of how a popular preacher
   comforted his deserted brother theologian by the following parable: Two
   men met in a city, the one to sell jewels and precious things, the
   other toys, tinsel, and trifles. Then all the people ran to the latter
   shop, because they did not understand the wares of the former.' A
   curious instance of popular wit is the following: It was expected that
   a person lately ordained should deliver a discourse before the people.
   The time came, but the Methurgeman in vain bent his ear closer and
   closer. It was evident that the new preacher had nothing to say. On
   which the Methurgeman quoted Habak. ii. 19: Woe unto him that saith to
   the wood, Awake; to the dumb stone, Arise, it shall teach !' (Sanh. 7
   b). It was probably on account of such scenes, that the Nasi was not
   allowed afterwards to ordain without the consent of the Sanhedrin.

   [2157] Succ. 51 b.

   [2158] Ber. 6 b.

   [2159] Ber. 6 b.

   [2160] Kidd. 81 a.

   [2161] Taan. 16 a. See Duschak, u. s. p. 285.

   [2162] Yalkut ii. p. 43 a, beginning.

   [2163] In connection with this the proverb quoted in the New Testament
   is thus used by Rabbi Tarphon: I wonder whether anyone at present would
   accept reproof. If you said, Remove the mote from thine eye, he would
   immediately reply, First remove the beam out of thine own eye' (Arach.
   16 b). May this not indicate how very widely the sayings of Christ had
   spread among the people?

   [2164] Even the celebrated R. Eliezer had the misfortune that, at a
   festival, his hearers one by one stole out during the sermon (Bez. 15
   b). On the other hand, it is said of R. Akiba, although his success as
   a preacher was very varied, that his application to Israel of the
   sufferings of Job and of his final deliverance moved his hearers to
   tears (Ber. R. 33).

   [2165] Comp. Zunz, Gottesd. Vortr. pp. 101-106, 351.

   [2166] See Zunz, Gottesd. Vortr. p. 352, Note b.

   [2167] As in Ber. R. 14.

   [2168] Shem. R. 15.

   [2169] Thus, in Tanch. on Ex. xxii. 24 (ed. Warsh. p. 105 a and b,
   sect. 15, towards the end), the expression in Deut. xv. 7, Meachikha,'
   from thy brother, is rendered m achikha,' not thy brother. Similarly,
   in the Pesiqta, the statement in Gen. xxii. 7, 8, God will provide
   Himself a lamb for a burnt-offering,' is paraphrased. And if not a Seh
   (lamb) for a burnt-offering, my son, se (thee) for a burnt offering.'
   It is added, se leolah is Greek, meaning, thou art the burnt-offering.'
   But the Greek in the former passage is also explained by rendering the
   achikha' as an Aramaic form of oika, in which case it would
   targumically mean Withhold not thy hand from the poor, who is like to
   thee.' Comp. the interesting tractate of Brüll (Fremdspr. Redens. p.
   21). A play upon Greek words is also supposed to occur in the Midrash
   on Cant. ii. 9, where the word dodi,' by omitting the second d, and
   transposing the yod and the vav, is made into the Greek dios, divine.
   But I confess I do not feel quite sure about this, although it has the
   countenance of Levy. In the Midrash on Cant. ii. 15, a whole Greek
   sentence is inserted, only Aramaically written. See also Sachs, Beitr.
   pp. 19 &c.

   [2170] Thus, when on one occasion the hearers of Akiba were going to
   sleep during his sermon, he called out: Why was Esther Queen in Persia
   over 127 provinces? Answer: She was a descendant of Sarah, who lived
   127 years' (Ber. R. 58). On a similar occasion R. Jehudah startled the
   sleepers by the question: One woman in Egypt bore 600,000 men in one
   birth.' One of his hearers immediately replied to the question, who she
   was: It was Jochebed, who bore Moses, who is reckoned equal to all the
   600,000 of Israel' (Midr. Shir haSh. R., ed. Warsh., p. 11 b, towards
   the end, on Cant. i. 15).

   [2171] Midr. on Eccl. vii. 5; ix. 17 b.

   [2172] In both these passages the fools' are explained to refer to the
   Methurgeman.

   [2173] Chag. 14 a.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XI.
THE FIRST GALILEAN MINISTRY.

   (St. Matt. iv. 13-17; St. Mark i. 14, 15; St. Luke iv. 15-32.)

   The visit to Nazareth was in many respects decisive. It presented by
   anticipation an epitome of the history of the Christ. He came to His
   own, and His own received Him not. The first time He taught in the
   Synagogue, as the first time He taught in the Temple, they cast Him
   out. On the one and the other occasion, they questioned His authority,
   and they asked for a sign.' In both instances, the power which they
   challenged was, indeed, claimed by Christ, but its display, in the
   manner which they expected, refused. The analogy seems to extend even
   farther - and if a misrepresentation of what Jesus had said when
   purifying the Temple formed the ground of the final false charge
   against Him, [2174] the taunt of the Nazarenes: Physician, heal
   thyself!' found an echo in the mocking cry, as He hung on the Cross: He
   saved others, Himself He cannot save.' [2175]

   It is difficult to understand how, either on historical grounds, or
   after study of the character of Christ, the idea could have arisen
   [2176] that Jesus had offered, or that He had claimed, to teach on that
   Sabbath in the Synagogue of Nazareth. Had He attempted what, alike in
   spirit and form, was so contrary to all Jewish notions, the whole
   character of the act would have been changed. As it was, the contrast
   with those by whom He was surrounded is almost as striking, as the part
   which He bore in the scene. We take it for granted, that what had so
   lately taken place in Cana, at only four miles' distance, or, to speak
   more accurately, in Capernaum, had become known in Nazareth. It raised
   to the highest pitch of expectancy the interest and curiosity
   previously awakened by the reports, which the Galileans had brought
   from Jerusalem, and by the general fame which had spread about Jesus.
   They were not to test, whether their countryman would be equal to the
   occasion, and do in His own city what they had heard had been done for
   Capernaum. To any ordinary man the return to Nazareth in such
   circumstances must have been an ordeal. Not so to the Christ, Who, in
   utter self-forgetfulness, had only this one aim of life - to do the
   Will of Him that sent Him. And so His bearing that day in the Synagogue
   is itself evidence, that while in, He was not of, that time.

   Realising the scene on such occasions, we mark the contrast. As there
   could be no un-Jewish forwardness on the part of Jesus, so, assuredly,
   would there be none of that mock-humility of reluctance to officiate,
   in which Rabbinism delighted. If, as in the circumstances seems likely,
   Jesus commenced the first part of the service, and then pronounced
   before the Ark' those Eulogies which were regarded as, in the strictest
   sense, the prayer (Tephillah), we can imagine - though we can scarcely
   realise - the reverent solemnity, which would seem to give a new
   meaning to each well-remembered sentence. And in His mouth it all had a
   new meaning. We cannot know what, if any, petitions He inserted, though
   we can imagine what their spirit would have been. And now, one by one,
   Priest, Levite, and, in succession, five Israelites, had read from the
   Law. There is no reason to disturb the almost traditional idea, that
   Jesus Himself read the concluding portion from the Prophets, or the
   so-called Haphtarah. The whole narrative seems to imply this.
   Similarly, it is most likely that the Haphtarah for that day was taken
   from the prophecies of Isaiah, [2177] and that it included the passage
   [2178] quoted by the Evangelist as read by the Lord Jesus. [2179] We
   know that the rolls' on which the Law was written were distinct from
   those of the Prophets; [2180] and every probability points to it, that
   those of the Prophets, at least the Greater, were also written on
   separate scrolls. In this instance we are expressly told, that the
   minister delivered unto Him the book of the prophet Esaias,' we doubt
   not, for the Haphtarah, [2181] and that, when He had unrolled the
   book,' He found' the place from which the Evangelist makes quotation.

   When unrolling, and holding the scroll, much more than the sixty-first
   chapter of Isaiah must have been within range of His eyes. On the other
   hand, it is quite certain that the verses quoted by the Evangelist
   could not have formed the whole Haphtarah. According to traditional
   rule, [2182] the Haphtarah ordinarily consisted of not less than
   twenty-one verses, [2183] though, if the passage was to be targumed,'
   or a sermon to follow, that number might be shortened to seven, five,
   or even three verses. Now the passage quoted by St. Luke consists
   really of only one verse (Is. lxi. 1), together with a clause from Is.
   lviii. 6, [2184] and the first clause of Is. lxi. 2. This could
   scarcely have formed the whole Haphtarah. There are other reasons also
   against this supposition. No doubt Jesus read alike the Haphtarah and
   the text of His discourse in Hebrew, and then targumed' or translated
   it: while St. Luke, as might be expected, quotes (with but two trifling
   alterations [2185] ) from the rendering of the LXX. But, on
   investigation, it appears that one clause is omitted from Is. lxi. 1,
   [2186] and that between the close of Is. lxi. 1 and the clause of verse
   2, which is added, a clause is inserted from the LXX. of Is. lviii. 6.
   [2187] This could scarcely have been done in reading the Haphtarah.
   But, if as we suppose, the passages quoted formed the introductory text
   of Christ's discourse, such quotation and combination were not only in
   accordance with Jewish custom, but formed part of the favourite mode of
   teaching - the Charaz - or stringing, like pearls, passage to passage,
   illustrative of each other. [2188] In the present instance, the portion
   of the scroll which Jesus unrolled may have exhibited in close
   proximity the two passages which formed the introductory text (the
   so-called Pethichah). But this is of comparatively small interest,
   since both the omission of a clause from Is. lxi. 1, and the insertion
   of another adapted from Is. lviii. 6, were evidently intentional. It
   might be presumptuous to attempt stating the reasons which may have
   influenced the Saviour in this, and yet some of them will instinctively
   occur to every thoughtful reader.

   It was, indeed, Divine wisdom' - the Spirit of the Lord' upon Him,
   which directed Jesus in the choice of such a text for His first
   Messianic Sermon. It struck the key-note to the whole of His Galilean
   ministry. The ancient Synagogue regarded Is. lxi. 1, 2, as one of the
   three passages, [2189] in which mention of the Holy Ghost was connected
   with the promised redemption. [2190] In this view, the application
   which the passage received in the discourse of our Lord was peculiarly
   suitable. For the words in which St. Luke reports what followed the
   Pethichah, or introductory text, seem rather a summary, than either the
   introduction or part of the discourse of Christ. This day is this
   Scripture fulfilled in your ears.' A summary this, which may well serve
   to guide in all preaching. As regards its form, it would be: so to
   present the teaching of Holy Scripture, as that it can be drawn
   together in the focus of one sentence; as regards its substance, that
   this be the one focus: all Scripture fulfilled by a present Christ. And
   this - in the Gospel which He bears to the poor, the release which He
   announces to the captives, the healing which He offers to those whom
   sin had blinded, and the freedom He brings to them who were bruised;
   and all as the trumpet-blast of God's Jubilee into His world of misery,
   sin, and want! A year thus begun would be glorious indeed in the
   blessings it gave.

   There was not a word in all this of what common Jewish expectancy would
   have connected with, nay, chiefly accentuated in an announcement of the
   Messianic redemption; not a word to raise carnal hopes, or flatter
   Jewish pride. Truly, it was the most un-Jewish discourse for a Jewish
   Messiah of those days, with which to open His Ministry. And yet such
   was the power of these words of grace.' that the hearers hung
   spell-bound upon them. Every eye was fastened on Him with hungry
   eagerness. For the time they forgot all else - Who it was that
   addressed them, even the strangeness of the message, so unspeakably in
   contrast to any preaching of Rabbi or Teacher that had been heard in
   that Synagogue. Indeed, one can scarcely conceive the impression which
   the Words of Christ must have produced, when promise and fulfilment,
   hope and reality, mingled, and wants of the heart, hitherto unrealised,
   were wakened, only to be more than satisfied. It was another sphere,
   another life. Truly, the anointing of the Holy Ghost was on the
   Preacher, from Whose lips dropped these words of grace.' And if such
   was the announcement of the Year of God's Jubilee, what blessings must
   it bear in its bosom!

   The discourse had been spoken, and the breathless silence with which,
   even according to Jewish custom, it had been listed to, [2191] gave
   place to the usual after-sermon hum of an Eastern Synagogue. On one
   point all were agreed: that they were marvellous words of grace, which
   had proceeded out of His mouth. And still the Preacher waited, with
   deep longing of soul, for some question, which would have marked the
   spiritual application of what He had spoken. Such deep longing of soul
   is kindred to, and passes into almost sternness, just because he who so
   longs is so intensely in earnest, in the conviction of the reality of
   his message. It was so with Jesus in Nazareth. They were indeed making
   application of the Sermon to the Preacher, but in quite different
   manner from that to which His discourse had pointed. It was not the
   fulfilment of the Scripture in Him, but the circumstance, that such an
   one as the Son of Joseph, their village carpenter, should have spoken
   such words, that attracted their attention. Not, as we take it, in a
   malevolent spirit, but altogether unspiritually, as regarded the effect
   of Christ's words, did one and another, here and there, express
   wonderment to his neighbour.

   They had heard, and now they would fain have seen. But already the holy
   indignation of Him, Whom they only knew as Joseph's son, was kindled.
   The turn of matters; their very admiration and expectation; their
   vulgar, unspiritual comments: it was all so entirely contrary to the
   Character, the Mission, and the Words of Jesus. No doubt they would
   next expect, that here in His own city, and all the more because it was
   such, He would do what they had heard had taken place in Capernaum. It
   was the world-old saying, as false, except to the ear, and as
   speciously popular as most such sayings: Charity begins at home' - or,
   according to the Jewish proverb, and in application to the special
   circumstances: Physician, heal thyself.' [2192] Whereas, if there is
   any meaning in truth and principle; if there was any meaning and
   reality in Christ's Mission, and in the discourse He had just spoken,
   Charity does not begin at home; and Physician, heal thyself' is not of
   the Gospel for the poor, nor yet the preaching of God's Jubilee, but
   that of the Devil, whose works Jesus had come to destroy. How could He,
   in His holy abhorrence and indignation, say this better than by again
   repeating, though now with different application, that sad experience,
   No prophet is accepted in his own country,' which He could have hoped
   was for ever behind Him; [2193] and by pointing to those two Old
   Testament instances of it, whose names and authority were most
   frequently on Jewish lips? Not they who were their own,' but they who
   were most receptive in faith - not Israel, but Gentiles, were those
   most markedly favoured in the ministry of Elijah and of Elisha. [2194]

   As we read the report of Jesus' words, we perceive only dimly that
   aspect of them which stirred the wrath of His hearers to the utmost,
   and yet we do understand it. That He should have turned so fully the
   light upon the Gentiles, and flung its large shadows upon them; that
   Joseph's Son' should have taken up this position towards them; that He
   would make to them spiritual application unto death of His sermon,
   since they would not make it unto life: it stung them to the quick.
   Away He must out of His city; it could not bear His Presence any
   longer, not even on that holy Sabbath. Out they thrust Him from the
   Synagogue; forth they pressed Him out of the city; on they followed,
   and around they beset Him along the road by the brow of the hill on
   which the city is built - perhaps to that western angle, at present
   pointed out as the site. [2195] This, with the unspoken intention of
   crowding Him over the cliff, [2196] which there rises abruptly about
   forty feet out of the valley beneath. [2197] If we are correct in
   indicating the locality, the road here bifurcates, [2198] and we can
   conceive how Jesus, Who had hitherto, in the silence of sadness,
   allowed Himself almost mechanically to be pressed onwards by the
   surrounding crowd, now turned, and by that look of commanding majesty,
   the forthbreaking of His Divine Being, which ever and again wrought on
   those around miracles of subjection, constrained them to halt and give
   way before Him, while unharmed He passed through their midst. [2199] So
   did Israel of old pass through the cleft waves of the sea, which the
   wonder-working rod of Moses had converted into a wall of safety. Yet,
   although He parted from it in judgment, not thus could the Christ have
   finally and for ever left His own Nazareth. [2200]

   Cast out of His own city, Jesus pursued His solitary way towards
   Capernaum. [2201] There, at least, devoted friends and believing
   disciples would welcome Him. There, also, a large draught of souls
   would fill the Gospel-net. Capernaum would be His Galilean home. [2202]
   Here He would, on the Sabbath-days, preach in that Synagogue, of which
   the good centurion was the builder, [2203] and Jairus the chief ruler.
   [2204] These names, and the memories connected with them, are a
   sufficient comment on the effect of His preaching: that His word was
   with power.' In Capernaum, also, was the now believing and devoted
   household of the court-officer, whose only son the Word of Christ,
   spoken at a distance, had restored to life. Here also, or in the
   immediate neighbourhood, was the home of His earliest and closest
   disciples, the brothers Simon and Andrew, and of James and John, the
   sons of Zebedee.

   From the character of the narrative, and still more from the later call
   of these four, [2205] it would seem that, after the return of Jesus
   from Judæa into Galilee, His disciples had left Him, probably in Cana,
   and returned to their homes and ordinary avocations. They were not yet
   called to forsake all and follow Him - not merely to discipleship, but
   to fellowship and Apostolate. When He went from Cana to Nazareth, they
   returned to Capernaum. They knew He was near them. Presently He came;
   and now His Ministry was in their own Capernaum, or in its immediate
   neighbourhood.

   For Capernaum was not the only place where He taught. Rather was it the
   center for itinerancy through all that district, to preach in its
   Synagogues. [2206] Amidst such ministry of quiet power,' chiefly alone
   and unattended by His disciples, the summer passed. Truly, it was
   summer in the ancient land of Zebulun and Naphtali, in the Galilee of
   the Gentiles, when the glorious Light that had risen chased away the
   long winter's darkness, and those who had been the first exiles in
   Assyrian bondage were the first brought back to Israel's true liberty,
   and by Israel's Messiah-King. To the writer of the first Gospel, as,
   long years afterwards, he looked back on this, the happy time when he
   had first seen the Light, till it had sprung up even to him in the
   region and shadow of death,' it must have been a time of peculiarly
   bright memories. How often, as he sat at the receipt of custom, must he
   have seen Jesus passing by; how often must he have heard His Words,
   some, perhaps, spoken to himself, but all falling like good seed into
   the field of his heart, and preparing him at once and joyously to obey
   the summons when it came: Follow Me! And not to him only, but to many
   more, would it be a glowing, growing time of heaven's own summer.

   There was a dim tradition in the Synagogue, that this prediction,
   [2207] The people that walk in the darkness see a great light,'
   referred to the new light, with which God would enlighten the eyes of
   those who had penetrated into the mysteries of Rabbinic lore, enabling
   them to perceive concerning loosing and binding, concerning what was
   clean and what was unclean.' [2208] Others [2209] regarded it as a
   promise to the early exiles, fulfilled when the great liberty came to
   them. To Levi-Matthew it seemed as if both interpretations had come
   true in those days of Christ's first Galilean ministry. Nay, he saw
   them combined in a higher unity when to their eyes, enlightened by the
   great Light, came the new knowledge of what was bound and what loosed,
   what unclean and clean, though quite differently from what Judaism had
   declared it to them; and when, in that orient Sun, the promise of
   liberty to long-banished Israel was at last seen fulfilled. It was,
   indeed, the highest and only true fulfilment of that prediction of
   Isaiah, [2210] in a history where all was prophetic, every partial
   fulfilment only an unfolding and opening of the bud, and each symbolic
   of further unfolding till, in the fulness of time, the great Reality
   came, to which all that was prophetic in Israel's history and
   predictions pointed. And so as, in the evening of his days,
   Levi-Matthew looked back to distant Galilee, the glow of the setting
   sun seemed once more to rest on that lake, as it lay bathed in its
   sheen of gold. It lit up that city, those shores, that custom-house; it
   spread far off, over those hills, and across the Jordan. Truly, and in
   the only true sense, had then the promise been fulfilled: [2211] To
   them which sat in the region and shadow of death, light is sprung up.'
     __________________________________________________________________

   [2174] St. Matt. xxvi. 60, 61.

   [2175] St. Matt. xxvi. 40-42.

   [2176] And yet most commentators - following, I suppose, the lead of
   Meyer - hold that Christ had stood up' in the sense of offering or
   claiming to read.

   [2177] Although we cannot feel quite sure of this.

   [2178] Is. lxi. 1, 2.

   [2179] St. Luke iv. 18, 19.

   [2180] Baba B. 13 b.

   [2181] I infer this from the fact, that the Book of the Prophet Isaiah
   was given to Him by the Minister of the Synagogue. Since the time of
   Bengel it has been a kind of traditional idea that, if this was the
   Haphtarah for the day, the sermon of Christ in Nazareth must have taken
   place on the Day of Atonement, for which in the modern Jewish
   lectionary Is. lviii. 6 forms part of the Haphtarah. There are,
   however, two objections to this view: 1. Our modern lectionary of
   Haphtarahs is certainly not the same as that in the time of Christ. 2.
   Even in our modern lectionary, Is. lxi. 1, 2 forms no part of the
   Haphtarah, either for the Day of Atonement, nor for any other Sabbath
   or festive day. In the modern lectionary Is. lvii. 14 to Is. lviii. 14
   is the Haphtarah for the Day of Atonement.

   [2182] Massech. Soph. xii. 7.

   [2183] This symbolically: 7 x 3, since each of the seven readers in the
   Law had to read at least three verses.

   [2184] To set at liberty those that are bruised.' The words are taken,
   with but a slight necessary alteration in the verb, from the LXX.
   rendering of Is. lviii. 6. The clause from Is. lxi. 2 is: To preach the
   acceptable year of the Lord.'

   [2185] Preaching instead of proclaiming, in Is. lxi. 2, and in the form
   of the verb in the clause from Is. lviii. 6. Besides, the insertion of
   the clause: to heal the broken-hearted,' is spurious.

   [2186] All the best MSS. omit the words, To heal the broken-hearted.'

   [2187] See above, Note 2.

   [2188] See the remarks on this point in the previous chapter. If I
   rightly understand the somewhat obscure language of Surenhusius (Biblos
   Katallages, pp. 339-345), such is also the view of that learned writer.
   This peculiarly Jewish method of Scriptural quotation by stringing
   together' is employed by St. Paul in Rom. iii. 10-18.

   [2189] The other two being Is. xxxii. 14, 15, and Lament. iii. 50.

   [2190] See the Appendix on the Messianic passages.

   [2191] See the previous chapter. It was the universal rule to listen to
   the sermon in perfect silence (Pes. 110 a; Moed K. a). The questions
   and objections commenced afterwards.

   [2192] The proverb really is: Physician, heal thine own lameness' (Ber.
   R. 23, ed. Warsh. p. 45 b).

   [2193] St. John iv. 44.

   [2194] The statement that the famine in the time of Elijah lasted three
   and a half years is in accordance with universal Jewish tradition.
   Comp. Yalkut on 1 Kings xvi., vol. ii. p. 32 b.

   [2195] See Stanley, Sinai and Palestine, p. 363. But surely it could
   not have been the south-western corner (Conder, Tent-Work, i. p. 140,
   and all later writers).

   [2196] The provision, which awarded instant death without formal trial
   in case of open blasphemy or profanation (Sanh. 81 b), would not apply
   in this instance. Probably the purpose was, that the crowd around
   should, as it were accidentally, push Him over the cliff.

   [2197] The spot is just above the Maronite Church.

   [2198] See the plan of Nazareth in Bädeker's (Socin's) Palæstina, p.
   255. The road to the left goes westward, that through the northern part
   of the town, towards Capernaum. Our localisation gains in probability,
   if the ancient Synagogue stood where tradition places it. At present it
   is in the hands of the Maronites.

   [2199] The circumstance that the Nazarenes did not avow the purpose of
   casting Him over the cliff, but intended accidentally to crowd Him
   over, explains how, when He turned sharply round to the right, and
   passed through the crowd, they did not follow Him.

   [2200] Many, even orthodox commentators, hold that this history is the
   same as that related in St. Matt. xiii. 54-58, and St. Mark vi. 1-6.
   But, for the reasons about to be stated, I have come, although somewhat
   hesitatingly, to the conclusion, that the narrative of St. Luke and
   those of St. Matthew and St. Mark refer to different events. 1. The
   narrative in St. Luke (which we shall call A) refers to the
   commencement of Christ's Ministry, while those of St. Matthew and St.
   Mark (which we shall call B) are placed at a later period. Nor does it
   seem likely, that our Lord would have entirely abandoned Nazareth after
   one rejection. 2. In narrative A, Christ is without disciples; in
   narrative B He is accompanied by them. 3. In narrative A no miracles
   are recorded - in fact, His words about Elijah and Elisha preclude any
   idea of them; while in narrative B there are a few, though not many. 4.
   In narrative A He is thrust out of the city immediately after His
   sermon, while narrative B implies, that He continued for some time in
   Nazareth, only wondering at their unbelief. If it be objected, that
   Jesus could scarcely have returned to Nazareth after the attempt on His
   life, we must bear in mind that this purpose had not been avowed, and
   that His growing frame during the intervening period may have rendered
   such a return not only possible, but even advisable. The coincidences
   as regards our Lord's statement about the Prophet, and their objection
   as to His being the carpenter's son, are only natural in the
   circumstances.

   [2201] Probably resting in the immediate neighbourhood of Nazareth, and
   pursuing His journey next day, when the Sabbath was past.

   [2202] St. Matt. ix. 1.

   [2203] St. Luke vii. 5.

   [2204] St. Mark v. 22.

   [2205] St. Matt. iv. 18, 22, and parallels.

   [2206] St. Matt. iv. 13-17.

   [2207] Is. ix. 2.

   [2208] Tanch. on Gen. vi. 9; ed. Warsh. p. 11 b.

   [2209] See Mikraoth Gedoloth on the passage.

   [2210] The words, That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by
   Esaias,' do not bear the meaning, that this was their primary and
   literal purpose. They represent a frequent mode of citation among
   Jewish writers, indicating a real fulfillment of the spirit, though not
   always of the letter, of a prophecy. On this subject see also
   Surenhusius, u. s., p. 218, and his admirable exposition of the Jewish
   formula {hebrew} (that it might be fulfilled which was spoken'), u. s.,
   pp. 2-4.

   [2211] St. Matt. ix. 16.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XII.
AT THE UNKNOWN' FEAST IN JERUSALEM, AND BY THE POOL OF BETHESDA.

   (St. John v.)

   The shorter days of early autumn had come, [2212] and the country stood
   in all its luxurious wealth of beauty and fruitfulness, as Jesus passed
   from Galilee to what, in the absence of any certain evidence, we must
   still be content to call the Unknown Feast' in Jerusalem. Thus much,
   however, seems clear that it was either the Feast of Wood-offering' on
   the 15th of Abh (in August), when, amidst demonstrations of joy,
   willing givers brought from all parts of the country the wood required
   for the service of the Altar; or else the Feast of Trumpets' on the 1st
   of Tishri (about the middle of September), which marked the beginning
   of the New (civil) Year. [2213] The journey of Christ to that Feast and
   its results are not mentioned in the Synoptic Gospels, because that
   Judæan ministry which, if the illustration be lawful, was the
   historical thread on which St. John strung his record of what the Word
   spake, lay, in great measure, beyond their historical standpoint.
   Besides, this and similar events belonged, indeed, to that grand
   Self-Manifestation of Christ, with the corresponding growth of
   opposition consequent upon it, which it was the object of the Fourth
   Gospel to set forth; but it led to no permanent results, and so was
   outside the scope of the more popular, pragmatic record, which the
   other Gospels has in view.

   There may in this instance, however, have been other reasons also for
   their silence. It has already been indicated that, during the summer of
   Christ's first Galilean ministry, when Capernaum was His centre of
   action, the disciples had returned to their homes and usual avocations,
   while Jesus moved about chiefly alone and unattended. This explains the
   circumstance of a second call, even to His most intimate and closest
   followers. It also accords best with that gradual development in
   Christ's activity, which commencing with the more private teaching of
   the new Preacher of Righteousness in the villages by the lake, or in
   the Synagogues, expanded into that publicity in which He at last
   appears, surrounded by His Apostles, attended by the loving ministry of
   those to whom He had brought healing of body or soul, and followed by a
   multitude which everywhere pressed around Him for teaching and help.

   This more public activity commenced with the return of Jesus from the
   Unknown Feast' in Jerusalem. There He had, in answer to the challenge
   of the Jewish authorities, for the first time set forth His Messianic
   claims in all their fulness. And there, also, He had for the first time
   encountered that active persecution unto death, of which Golgotha was
   the logical outcome. This Feast, then, was the time of critical
   decision. Accordingly, as involving the separation from the old state
   and the commencement of a new condition of things, it was immediately
   followed by the call of His disciples to a new Apostleship. In this
   view, we can also better understand the briefness of the notices of His
   first Galilean ministry, and how, after Christ's return from that
   Feast, His teaching became more full, and the display of His miraculous
   power more constant and public.

   It seems only congruous, accordant with all the great decisive steps of
   Him in Whose footprints the disciples trod, only after He had marked
   them, as it were, with His Blood, that He should have gone up to that
   Feast alone and unattended. That such had been the case, has been
   inferred by some from this, that the narrative of the healing of the
   impotent man reads so Jewish, that the account of it appears to have
   been derived by St. John from a Jew at Jerusalem. [2214] [2215] Others
   [2216] have come to the same conclusion from the meagreness of details
   about the event. But it seems implied in the narrative itself, and the
   marked and exceptional absence of any reference to disciples leads to
   the obvious conclusion, that they had not been with their Master.

   But, if Jesus was alone and unattended at the Feast, the question
   arises, whence the report was derived of what He said in reply to the
   challenge of the Jews? Here the answer naturally suggests itself, that
   the Master Himself may, at some later period of His life - perhaps
   during His last stay in Jerusalem - have communicated to His disciples,
   or else to him who stood nearest to Him, the details of what had passed
   on the first occasion when the Jewish authorities had sought to
   extinguish His Messianic claims in His blood. If that communication was
   made when Jesus was about to be offered up, it would also account for
   what otherwise might seem a difficulty: the very developed form of
   expression in which His relation to the Father, and His own Office and
   Power, are presented. We can understand how, from the very first, all
   this should have been laid before the teachers of Israel. But in view
   of the organic development of Christ's teaching, we could scarcely
   expect it to have been expressed in such very full terms, till near the
   close of His Ministry. [2217]

   But we are anticipating. The narrative transports us at once to what,
   at the time, seems to have been a well-known locality in Jerusalem,
   though all attempts to identify it, or even to explain the name
   Bethesda, have hitherto failed. All we know is, that it was a pool
   enclosed within five porches, by the sheep-market, presumably close to
   the Sheep-Gate.' [2218] This, as seems most likely, opened from the
   busy northern suburb of markets, bazaars, and workshops, eastwards upon
   the road which led over the Mount of Olives and Bethany to Jericho.
   [2219] In that case, most probability would attach to the
   identification of the Pool Bethesda with a pool somewhat north of the
   so-called Birket Israîl. At present it is wholly filled with rubbish,
   but in the time of the Crusaders it seems to have borne the name of the
   Sheep-pond, and, it was thought, traces of the five porches could still
   be detected. Be this as it may, it certainly bore in the Hebrew' - or
   rather Aramæan - tongue,' the name Bethesda. No doubt this name was
   designative, though the common explanations - Beth Chisda (so most
   modern writers, and Watkins) House of Mercy' (?), Beth Istebha
   ({hebrew}, Delitzsch), House of Porches,' and Beth Zeytha (Westcott)
   House of the Olive' - seem all unsatisfactory. More probability
   attaches to the rendering Beth Asutha (Wünsche), or Beth Asyatha, House
   of Healing.' But as this derivation offers linguistic difficulties, we
   would suggest that the second part of the name (Beth-Esda) was really a
   Greek word Aramaised. Here two different derivations suggest
   themselves. The root-word of Esda might either express to become well'
   - Beth sthai - or something akin to the Rabbinic Zit [2220]
   ({hebrew}=zthi). In that case, the designation would agree with an
   ancient reading of the name, Bethzatha. Or else, the name Bethesda
   might combine, according to a not uncommon Rabbinic practice, the
   Hebrew Beth with some Aramaised form derived from the Greek word zo, to
   boil' or bubble up' (subst. zsis); in which case it would mean the
   House of Bubbling-up,' viz. water. Any of the three derivations just
   suggested would not only give an apt designation for the pool, but
   explain why St. John, contrary to his usual practice, does not give a
   Greek equivalent for a Hebrew term.

   All this is, however, of very subordinate importance, compared with the
   marvellous facts of the narrative itself. In the five porches
   surrounding this pool lay a great multitude of the impotent,' in
   anxious hope of a miraculous cure. We can picture to ourselves the
   scene. The popular superstitions, [2221] which gave rise to what we
   would regard as a peculiarly painful exhibition of human misery of body
   and soul, is strictly true to the times and the people. Even now
   travellers describe a similar concourse of poor crippled sufferers, on
   their miserable pallets or on rugs, around the mineral springs near
   Tiberias, filling, in true Oriental fashion, the air with their
   lamentations. In the present instance there would be even more occasion
   for this than around any ordinary thermal spring. For the popular idea
   was, that an Angel descended into the water, causing it to bubble up,
   and that only he who first stepped into the pool would be cured. As
   thus only one person could obtain benefit, we may imagine the
   lamentations of the many' who would, perhaps, day by day, be
   disappointed in their hopes. This bubbling up of the water was, of
   course, due not to supernatural but to physical causes. Such
   intermittent springs are not uncommon, and to this day the so-called
   Fountain of the Virgin' in Jerusalem exhibits the phenomenon. It is
   scarcely necessary to say, that the Gospel-narrative does not ascribe
   this troubling of the waters' to Angelic agency, nor endorses the
   belief, that only the first who afterwards entered them, could be
   healed. This was evidently the belief of the impotent man, as of all
   the waiting multitude. [2222] But the words in verse 4 of our
   Authorised Version, and perhaps, also, the last clause of verse 3, are
   admittedly an interpolation. [2223]

   In another part of this book it is explained at length, [2224] how
   Jewish belief at the time attached such agency to Angels, and how it
   localised (so to speak) special Angels in springs and rivers; and we
   shall have presently to show, what were the popular notions about
   miraculous cures. If, however, the belief about Bethesda arose merely
   from the mistaken ideas about the cause of this bubbling of the water,
   the question would naturally suggest itself, whether any such cases as
   those described had ever really occurred, and, if not, how such a
   superstition could have continued. But that such healing might actually
   occur in the circumstances, no one would be prepared to deny, who has
   read the accounts of pilgrimages to places of miraculous cure, or who
   considers the influence of a firm expectancy on the imagination,
   especially in diseases which have their origin in the nervous system.
   This view of the matter is confirmed, and Scripture still further
   vindicated from even the faintest appearance of endorsing the popular
   superstition, by the use of the article in the expression a multitude
   of the impotent' (plthos tn sthenonton), which marks this impotence as
   used in the generic sense, while the special diseases, afterwards
   enumerated without the article, are ranged under it as instances of
   those who were thus impotent. Such use of the Greek term, as not
   applying to any one specific malady, is vindicated by a reference to
   St. Matt. viii. 17 and St. Mark vi. 56, and by its employment by the
   physician Luke. It is, of course, not intended to imply, that the
   distempers to which this designation is given had all their origin in
   the nervous system; but we argue that, if the term impotent' was the
   general, of which the diseases mentioned in verse 3 were the specific -
   in other words, that, if it was an impotence,' of which these were the
   various manifestations - it may indicate, that they all, so far as
   relieved, had one common source, and this, as we would suggest, in the
   nervous system. [2225]

   With all reverence, we can in some measure understand, what feelings
   must have stirred the heart of Jesus, in view of this suffering,
   waiting great multitude.' Why, indeed, did He go into those five
   porches, since He had neither disease to cure, nor cry for help and
   come to Him from those who looked for relief to far other means? Not,
   surely, from curiosity. But as one longs to escape from the stifling
   atmosphere of a scene of worldly pomp, with its glitter and unreality,
   into the clearness of the evening-air, so our Lord may have longed to
   pass from the glitter and unreality of those who held rule in the
   Temple, or who occupied the seat of Moses in their Academies, to what
   was the atmosphere of His Life on earth, His real Work, among that
   suffering, ignorant multitude, which, in its sorrow, raised a piteous,
   longing cry for help where it had been misdirected to seek it.

   And thus we can here also perceive the deep internal connection between
   Christ's miracle of healing the impotent man' and the address of
   mingled sadness and severity, [2226] in which He afterwards set before
   the Masters in Israel the one truth fundamental in all things. We have
   only, so to speak, to reverse the formal order and succession of that
   discourse, to gain an insight into what prompted Jesus to go to
   Bethesda, and by His power to perform this healing. [2227] He had been
   in the Temple at the Feast; He had necessarily been in contact - it
   could not be otherwise, when in the Temple - with the great ones of
   Israel. What a stifling atmosphere there of glitter and unreality! What
   had He in common with those who received glory one of another, and the
   glory which cometh from the One only God' they sought not? [2228] How
   could such men believe? The first meaning, and the object of His Life
   and Work, was as entirely different from their aims and perceptions, as
   were the respective springs of their inner being. They clung and
   appealed to Moses; to Moses, whose successors they claimed to be, let
   them go! [2229] Their elaborate searching and sifting of the Law in
   hope that, by a subtle analysis of its every particle and letter, by
   inferences from, and a careful drawing of a prohibitive hedge around,
   its letter, they would possess themselves of eternal life, [2230] what
   did it all come to? Utterly self-deceived, and far from the truth in
   their elaborate attempts to outdo each other in local ingenuity, they
   would, while rejecting the Messiah sent from God, at last become the
   victims of a coarse Messianic impostor. [2231] And even in the present,
   what was it all? Only the letter - the outward! All the lessons of
   their past miraculous history had been utterly lost on them. What had
   there been of the merely outward in its miracles and revelations?
   [2232] It had been the witness of the Father; but this was the very
   element which, amidst their handling of the external form, they
   perceived not. Nay, not only the unheard Voice of the Father, but also
   the heard voice of the Prophets - a voice which they might have heard
   even in John the Baptist. They heard, but did not perceive it - just
   as, in increasing measure, Christ's sayings and doings, and the Father
   and His testimony, were not perceived. And so all hastened on to the
   judgment of final unbelief, irretrievable loss, and self-caused
   condemnation. [2233] It was all utterly mistaken; utter, and, alas!
   guilty perversion, their elaborate trifling with the most sacred
   things, while around them were suffering, perishing men, stretching
   lame hands' into emptiness, and wailing out their mistaken hopes into
   the eternal silence.

   While they were discussing the niceties of what constituted labour on a
   Sabbath, such as what infringed its sacred rest or what constituted a
   burden, multitudes of them who laboured and were heavy laden were left
   to perish in their ignorance. That was the Sabbath, and the God of the
   Sabbath of Pharisaism; this the rest, the enlightenment, the hope for
   them who laboured and were heavy laden, and who longed and knew not
   where to find the true Sabbatismos! Nay, if the Christ had not been the
   very opposite of all that Pharisaism sought, He would not have been the
   Orient Sun of the Eternal Sabbath. But the God Who ever worked in love,
   Whose rest was to give rest, Whose Sabbath to remove burdens, was His
   Father. He knew Him; He saw His working; He was in fellowship of love,
   of work, of power with Him. He had come to loose every yoke, to give
   life, to bring life, to be life - because He had life: life in its
   fullest sense. For, contact with Him, whatever it may be, gives life:
   to the diseased, health; to the spiritually dead, the life of the soul;
   to the dead in their graves, the life of resurrection. And all this was
   the meaning of Holy Scripture, when it pointed forward to the Lord's
   Anointed; and all this was not merely His own, but the Father's Will -
   the Mission which He had given Him, the Work which He had sent Him to
   do. [2234]

   Translate this into deed, as all His teachings have been, are, and will
   be, and we have the miraculous cure of the impotent man, with its
   attendant circumstances. Or, conversely, translate that deed, with its
   attendant circumstances, into words, and we have the discourse of our
   Lord. Moreover, all this is fundamental to the highest understanding of
   our Lord's history. And, therefore, we understand how, many years
   afterwards, the beloved disciple gave a place to this miracle, when, in
   the full ripeness of spiritual discernment, he chose for record in his
   Gospel from among those many signs,' which Jesus truly did, [2235] only
   five as typical, like the five porches of the great Bethesda of His
   help to the impotent, or like the five divisions into which the Psalter
   of praise was arranged. As he looked back, from the height where he
   stood at his journey's end, to where the sun was setting in purple and
   golden glory far across the intervening landscape, amidst its varying
   scenes this must have stood out before his sight, as what might show to
   us that Jesus was the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing we
   might have life through His Name.' [2236]

   And so, understanding from what He afterwards said to the Jews' what He
   thought and felt in going thither, we are better prepared to follow the
   Christ to Bethesda. Two pictures must have been here simultaneously
   present to His mind. On the one side, a multitude whose sufferings and
   false expectancies rose, like the wail of the starving for bread; and,
   on the other side, the neighbouring Temple, with its priesthood and
   teachers, who, in their self-seeking and the trifling of their
   religious externalism, neither understood, heard, nor would have cared
   for such a cry. If there was an Israel, Prince with God, and if there
   was a God of the Covenant, this must not, cannot be; and Christ goes to
   Bethesda as Israel's Messiah, the Truth, and the Life. There was
   twofold suffering there, and it were difficult to know which would have
   stirred Him most: that of the body, or the mistaken earnestness which
   so trustfully looked for Heaven's relief - yet within such narrow
   limits as the accident or good fortune of being first pushed into the
   Angel-troubled waters. But this was also a true picture of His people
   in their misery, and in their narrow notions of God and of the
   conditions of His blessing. And now Israel's Messiah had at last come.
   What would we expect Him to have done? Surely not to preach
   controversial or reformatory doctrines; but to do, if it were in Him,
   and in doing to speak. And so in this also the Gospel-narrative proves
   itself true, by telling that He did, what alone would be true in a
   Messiah, the Son of God. It is, indeed, impossible to think of
   Incarnate Deity - and this, be it remembered, is the fundamental
   postulate of the Gospels - as brought into contact with misery,
   disease, and death without their being removed. That power went forth
   from Him always, everywhere, and to all, is absolutely necessary, if He
   was the Son of God, the Saviour of the world. And so the miracles, as
   we mistakingly term the result of the contact of God with man, of the
   Immanuel (God with us), are not only the golden ladder which leads up
   to the Miracle, God manifest in the flesh, but the steps by which He
   descends from His height to our lowliness.

   The waters had not yet been troubled,' when He stood among that
   multitude of sufferers and their attendant friends. It was in those
   breathless moments of the intense suspense of expectancy, when every
   eye was fixed on the pool, that the eye of the Saviour searched for the
   most wretched object among them all. In him, as a typical case, could
   He best do and teach that for which He had come. This impotent' man,
   for thirty-eight years a hopeless sufferer, without attendant or friend
   [2237] among those whom misery - in this also the true outcome of sin -
   made so intensely selfish; and whose sickness was really the
   consequence of his sin, [2238] and not merely in the sense which the
   Jews attached to it [2239] - this now seemed the fittest object for
   power and grace. For, most marked in this history is the entire
   spontaneity of our Lord's help. [2240] It is idle to speak either of
   faith or of receptiveness on the man's part. The essence of the whole
   lies in the utter absence of both; in Christ's raising, as it were, the
   dead, and calling the things that are not as though they were. This,
   the fundamental thought concerning His Mission and power as the Christ
   shines forth as the historical background in Christ's subsequent,
   explanatory discourse. The Wilt thou be made whole?' with which Jesus
   drew the man's attention to Himself, was only to probe and lay bare his
   misery. And then came the word of power, or rather the power spoken
   forth, which made him whole every whit. Away from this pool, in which
   there was no healing; away - for the Son of God had come to him with
   the outflowing of His power and pitying help, and he was made whole.
   Away with his bed, not, although it was the holy Sabbath, but just
   because it was the Sabbath of holy rest and holy delight!

   In the general absorbedness of all around, no ear, but that to which it
   had been spoken, had heard what the Saviour had said. The waters had
   not been troubled, and the healing had been all unseen. Before the
   healed man, scarcely conscious of what had passed, had, with new-born
   vigour, gathered, himself up and rolled together his coverlet to hasten
   after Him, Jesus had already withdrawn. [2241] [2242] In that
   multitude, all thinking only of their own sorrows and wants, He had
   come and gone unobserved. But they all now knew and observed this
   miracle of healing, as they saw this unbefriended and most wretched of
   them all healed, without the troubling of waters or first immersion in
   them. Then there was really help in Israel, and help not limited to
   such external means! How could Christ have taught that multitude, nay,
   all Jerusalem and Jewry, all this, as well as all about Himself, but by
   what He did? And so we learn here also another aspect of miracles, as
   necessary for those who, weary of Rabbinic wrangling, could, in their
   felt impotence, only learn by what He did that which He would say.

   We know it not, but we cannot believe that on that day, nor, perhaps,
   thenceforth on any other day, any man stepped for healing into the
   bubbling waters of Bethesda. Rather would they ask the healed man,
   Whose was the word that had brought him healing? But he knew Him not.
   Forth he stepped into God's free air, a new man. It was truly the holy
   Sabbath within, as around him; but he thought not of the day, only of
   the rest and relief it had brought. It was the holy Sabbath, and he
   carried on it his bed. If he remembered that it was the Sabbath, on
   which it was unlawful to carry forth anything - a burden, he would not
   be conscious that it was a burden, or that he had any burden; but very
   conscious that He, Who had made him whole, had bidden him take up his
   bed and walk. These directions had been bound up with the very word
   (Rise') in which his healing had come. That was enough for him. And in
   this lay the beginning and root of his inward healing. Here was simple
   trust, unquestioning obedience to the unseen, unknown, but real
   Saviour. For he believed Him, [2243] and therefore trusted in Him, that
   He must be right; and so, trusting without questioning, be obeyed.

   The Jews saw him, as from Bethesda he carried home his burden.' Such as
   that he carried were their only burdens. Although the law of
   Sabbath-observance must have been made stricter in later Rabbinic
   development, when even the labour of moving the sick into the waters of
   Bethesda would have been unlawful, unless there had been present danger
   to life, [2244] yet, admittedly, this carrying of the bed was an
   infringement of the Sabbatic law, as interpreted by traditionalism.
   Most characteristically, it was this external infringement which they
   saw, and nothing else; it was the Person Who had commanded it Whom they
   would know, not Him Who had made whole the impotent man. Yet this is
   quite natural, and perhaps not so different from what we may still
   witness among ourselves.

   It could not have been long after this - most likely, as soon as
   possible - that the healed man and his Healer met in the Temple. What
   He then said to him, completed the inward healing. On the ground of his
   having been healed, let him be whole. As he trusted and obeyed Jesus in
   the outward cure, so let him now inwardly and morally trust and obey.
   Here also this looking through the external to the internal, through
   the temporal to the spiritual and eternal, which is so characteristic
   of the after-discourse of Jesus, nay, of all His discourses and of His
   deeds, is most marked. The healed man now knew to Whom he owed faith,
   gratitude, and trust of obedience; and the consequences of this
   knowledge must have been incalculable. It would make him a disciple in
   the truest sense. And this was the only additional lesson which he, as
   each of us, must learn individually and personally: that the man healed
   by Christ stands in quite another position, as regards the morally
   right, from what he did before, not only before his healing, but even
   before his felt sickness, so that, if he were to go back to sin, or
   rather, as the original implies, continue to sin,' [2245] a thing
   infinitely worse would come to him.

   It seems an idle question, why the healed man told the Jews that it was
   Jesus. It was only natural that he should do so. Rather do we ask, How
   did he know that He Who had spoken to him was Jesus? Was it by the
   surrounding of keen-eyed, watchful Rabbis, or by the contradiction of
   sinners? Certain we are, that it was far better Jesus should have
   silently withdrawn from the porches of Bethesda to make it known in the
   Temple, Who it was that had done this miracle. Far more effectually
   could He so preach its lesson to those who had been in Bethesda, and to
   all Jewry.

   And yet something further was required. He must speak it out in clear,
   open words, what was the hidden inward meaning of this miracle. As so
   often, it was the bitter hatred of His persecutors which gave Him the
   opportunity. The first forthbursting of His Messianic Mission and
   Character had come in that Temple, when He realised it as His Father's
   House, and His Life as about His Father's business. Again had these
   thoughts about His Father kindled within Him in that Temple, when, on
   the first occasion of His Messianic appearance there, He had sought to
   purge it, that it might be a House of Prayer. And now, once more in
   that House, it was the same consciousness about God as His Father, and
   His Life as the business of His Father, which furnished the answer to
   the angry invectives about His breach of the Sabbath-Law. The Father's
   Sabbath was His; the Father worked hitherto and He worked; the Father's
   work and His were the same; He was the Son of the Father. [2246] And in
   this He also taught, what the Jews had never understood, the true
   meaning of the Sabbath-Law, by emphasising that which was the
   fundamental thought of the Sabbath - Wherefore the Lord blessed the
   Sabbath day, and hallowed it:' not the rest of inactivity, but of
   blessing and hallowing.

   Once more it was not His whole meaning, but only this one point, that
   He claimed to be equal with God, of which they took hold. As we
   understand it, the discourse beginning with verse 19 is not a
   continuation of that which had been begun in verse 17, but was
   delivered on another, though probably proximate occasion. By what He
   had said about the Father working hitherto and His working, He had
   silenced the multitude, who must have felt that God's rest was truly
   that of beneficence, not of inactivity. But He had raised another
   question, that of His equality with God, and for this He was taken to
   task by the Masters in Israel. To them it was that He addressed that
   discourse which, so to speak, preached His miracle at the Pool of
   Bethesda. Into its details we cannot enter further than has already
   been done. Some of its reasonings can be clearly traced, as starting
   from certain fundamental positions, held in common alike by the
   Sanhedrists and by Christ. Others, such as probably in answer to
   unreported objections, we may guess at. This may also account for what
   may seem occasional abruptness of transitions.

   But what most impresses us, is the majestic grandeur of Christ's
   self-consciousness in presence of His enemies, and yet withal the tone
   of pitying sadness which pervades His discourse. The time of the
   judgment of silence had not yet come. And for the present the majesty
   of His bearing overawed them, even as it did His enemies to the end,
   and Christ could pass unharmed from among them. And so ended that day
   in Jerusalem. And this is all that is needful for us to know of His
   stay at the Unknown Feast. With this inward separation, and the
   gathering of hostile parties closes the first and begins the second,
   stage of Christ's Ministry.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [2212] Both Godet and Prof. Westcott (the latter more fully) have
   pointed out the distinction between met tata (literally: after those
   things - as in St. John v. 1'), and met toto. The former does not
   indicate immediate succession of time.

   [2213] For a full discussion of the question see vol. ii. App. XV. pp.
   765, 766; for the Feast of Wood-offering,' The Temple and its Services,
   & c.,' pp.295, 296.

   [2214] Wetstein.

   [2215] The reader will have no difficulty in finding not a few points
   in St. John v. utterly irreconcilable with the theory of a second
   century Ephesian Gospel. It would take too much space to particularise
   them.

   [2216] So Gess, Godet, and others.

   [2217] Even Strauss admits, that the discourse contains nothing which
   might not have been spoken by Christ. His objection to its
   authenticity, on the ground of the analogies to it in certain portions
   of the Fourth Gospel and of the Epistles of St. John, is a curious
   instance of critical argumentation (Leben Jesu, i. p. 646).

   [2218] Neh. iii. 1, 32; xii. 39.

   [2219] Comp. specially Riehm's Handwörterb. ad voc.

   [2220] Said when people sneezed, like Prosit!'

   [2221] Indeed, belief in holy wells' seems to have been very common in
   ancient times. From the cuneiform inscriptions it appears to have been
   even entertained by the ancient Babylonians.

   [2222] St. John v. 7.

   [2223] I must here refer to the critical discussion in Canon Westcott's
   Commentary on St. John. I only wish I could without unfairness
   transport to these pages the results of his masterly criticism of this
   chapter.

   [2224] See the Appendix on Angels.'

   [2225] Another term for sick' in the N. T. is ostos (St. Matt. xiv. 14;
   St. Mark vi. 5, 13; xvi. 18; (comp. Ecclus. vii. 35). This corresponds
   to the Hebrew {hebrew}, Mal. i. 8. In 1 Cor. xi. 30 the two words are
   used together, ostos and sthens.

   [2226] St. John v. 17-47.

   [2227] Such a logical inversion seems necessary in passing from the
   objective to the subjective.

   [2228] ver. 44.

   [2229] vv. 45-47.

   [2230] ver. 39.

   [2231] vv. 40-43.

   [2232] ver. 37.

   [2233] vv. 30-38.

   [2234] vv. 19-32.

   [2235] St. John xx. 30.

   [2236] St. John xx. 31.

   [2237] ver. 7.

   [2238] ver. 14.

   [2239] Comp. St. John ix. 3.

   [2240] This characteristic is specially marked by Canon Westcott.

   [2241] ver. 13.

   [2242] The meaning of the expression is retired' or withdrawn' Himself.

   [2243] In connection with this see ver. 24, where the expression is
   believeth Him,' not on Him' as in the A.V., which occasionally
   obliterates the difference between the two, which is so important, the
   one implying credit, the other its outcoming trust (comp. St. John vi.
   29, 30; viii. 30, 31; 1 John v. 10).

   [2244] The whole subject of the Sabbath-Law will be specially discussed
   in a later chapter. See also Appendix XVII. on The Law of the Sabbath'
   according to the Mishnah and Talmud.

   [2245] See Westcott ad loc.

   [2246] ver. 17.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XIII.
BY THE SEA OF GALILEE - THE FINAL CALL OF THE FIRST DISCIPLES, AND THE
MIRACULOUS DRAUGHT OF FISHES

   (St. Matt. iv. 18-22; St. Mark i. 16-20; St. Luke v. 1-11.)

   We are once again out of the stifling spiritual atmosphere of the great
   City, and by the glorious Lake of Galilee. They were other men, these
   honest, simple, earnest, impulsive Galileans, than that self-seeking,
   sophistical, heartless assemblage of Rabbis, whose first active
   persecution Jesus had just encountered, and for the time overawed by
   the majesty of His bearing. His return to Capernaum could not have
   remained unknown. Close by, on either side of the city, the country was
   studded with villages and towns, a busy, thriving, happy multitude.
   During that bright summer He had walked along that Lake, and by its
   shore and in the various Synagogues preached His Gospel. And they had
   been astonished at His doctrine, for His word was with power.' For the
   first time they had heard what they felt to be the Word of God,' and
   they had learned to love its sound. What wonder that, immediately on
   His return, the people pressed upon Him to hear' it.

   If we surrender ourselves to the impression which the Evangelic
   narratives give us when pieced together, [2247] it would almost seem,
   as if what we are about to relate had occurred while Jesus was
   returning from Jerusalem. For, the better reading of St. Mark i. 16
   gives this as the mark of time: As He was passing on by the Sea of
   Galilee.' But perhaps, viewed in connection with what follows, the
   impression may be so far modified, that we may think of it as on the
   first morning after His return. It had probably been a night of storm
   on the Lake. For, the toil of the fishermen had brought them no draught
   of fishes, [2248] and they stood by the shore, or in the boats drawn up
   on the beach, casting in their nets to wash' them [2249] of the sand
   and pebbles, with which such a night's work would clog them, or to mend
   what had been torn by the violence of the waves. It was a busy scene;
   for, among the many industries by the Lake of Galilee, that of fishing
   was not only the most generally pursued, but perhaps the most
   lucrative.

   Tradition had it, that since the days of Joshua, and by one of his ten
   ordinances, fishing in the Lake, though under certain necessary
   restrictions, was free to all. [2250] And as fish was among the
   favourite articles of diet, in health and sickness, on week-days and
   especially at the Sabbath-meal, many must have been employed in
   connection with this trade. Frequent, and sometimes strange, are the
   Rabbinic advices, what kinds of fish to eat at different times, and in
   what state of preparation. They were eaten fresh, dried, or pickled;
   [2251] a kind of relish' or sauce was made of them, and the roe also
   prepared. [2252] or twine, [2253] and the smaller fish in baskets or
   casks. In truth, these Rabbis are veritable connoisseurs in this
   delicacy; they discuss their size with exaggerations, advise when they
   are in season, discern a peculiar flavour in the same kinds if caught
   in different waters, and tell us how to prepare them most tastefully,
   cautioning us to wash them down, if it cannot be with water, with beer
   rather than wine. [2254] [2255] It is one of their usual exaggerations,
   when we read of 300 different kinds of fish at a dinner given to a
   great Rabbi, [2256] although the common proverb had it, to denote what
   was abundant, that it was like bringing fish to Acco.' [2257] Besides,
   fish was also largely imported from abroad. [2258] It indicates the
   importance of this traffic, that one of the gates of Jerusalem was
   called the fish-gate.' [2259] Indeed, there is a legend [2260] to the
   effect, that not less than 600,000 casks of sardines were every week
   supplied for the fig-dressers of King Jannæus. But, apart from such
   exaggerations, so considerable was this trade that, at a later period,
   one of the Patriarchs of the Sanhedrin engaged in it, and actually
   freighted ships for the transport of fish. [2261]

   These notices, which might be largely multiplied, are of more than
   antiquarian interest. They give a more vivid idea of life by the Lake
   of Galilee, and show that those engaged in that trade, like Zebedee and
   his sons ({hebrew}, the God-given,' like Theodore and Dorothea), were
   not unfrequently men of means and standing. This irrespective of the
   fact, that the Rabbis enjoined some trade or industrial occupation on
   every man, whatever his station. We can picture to ourselves, on that
   bright autumn morning, after a stormy night of bootless toil, the busy
   scene by the Lake, with the fishermen cleaning and mending their nets.
   Amidst their work they would scarcely notice the gathering crowd. As we
   have suggested from the better reading of St. Mark i. 16, it was
   Christ's first walk by the Lake on the morning after His return from
   Judæa. Engaged in their fishing on the afternoon, evening, and night of
   His arrival in Capernaum, they would probably not have known of His
   presence till He spake to them. But He had come that morning specially
   to seek four of these fishers, that He might, now that the time for it
   had come, call them to permanent discipleship - and, what is more, fit
   them for the work to which he would call them.

   Jewish customs and modes of thinking at that time do not help us
   further to understand the Lord's call of them, except so far as they
   enable us more clearly to apprehend what the words of Jesus would
   convey to them. The expression Follow Me' would be readily understood,
   as implying a call to become the permanent disciple of a teacher.
   [2262] Similarly, it was not only the practice of the Rabbis, but
   regarded as one of the most sacred duties, for a Master to gather
   around him a circle of disciples. [2263] Thus, neither Peter and
   Andrew, nor the sons of Zebedee, could have misunderstood the call of
   Christ, or even regarded it as strange. On that memorable return from
   His Temptation in the wilderness they had learned to know Him as the
   Messiah, [2264] and they followed Him. And, now that the time had come
   for gathering around Him a separate discipleship, when, with the visit
   to the Unknown Feast, the Messianic activity of Jesus had passed into
   another stage, that call would not come as a surprise to their minds or
   hearts.

   So far as the Master was concerned, we mark three points. First, the
   call came after the open breach with, and initial persecution of, the
   Jewish authorities. It was, therefore, a call to fellowship in His
   peculiar relationship to the Synagogue. Secondly, it necessitated the
   abandonment of all their former occupations, and, indeed, of all
   earthly ties. [2265] Thirdly, it was from the first, and clearly,
   marked as totally different from a call to such discipleship, as that
   of any other Master in Israel. It was not to learn more of doctrine,
   nor more fully to follow out a life-direction already taken, but to
   begin, and to become, something quite new, of which their former
   occupation offered an emblem. The disciples of the Rabbis, even those
   of John the Baptist, followed,' in order to learn; they, in order to
   do, and to enter into fellowship with His Work. Follow Me, and I will
   make you fishers of men.' It was then quite a new call this, which at
   the same time indicated its real aim and its untold difficulties. Such
   a call could not have been addressed to them, if they had not already
   been disciples of Jesus, understood His Mission, and the character of
   the Kingdom of God. But, the more we think of it, the more do we
   perceive the magnitude of the call and of the decision which it implied
   - for, without doubt, they understood what it implied, as clearly, in
   some respects perhaps more clearly, than we do. All the deeper, then,
   must have been their loving belief in Him, and their earnest
   attachment, when, with such unquestioning trust, and such absolute
   simplicity and entireness of self-surrender, that it needed not even a
   spoken Yea on their part, they forsook ship and home to follow Him. And
   so, successively, Simon [2266] and Andrew, and John and James - those
   who had been the first to hear, were also the first to follow Jesus.
   And ever afterwards did they remain closest to Him, who had been the
   first fruits of His Ministry.

   It is not well to speak too much of the faith of men. With all the
   singleness of spiritual resolve - perhaps, as yet, rather impulse -
   which it implied, they probably had not themselves full or adequate
   conception of what it really meant. That would evolve in the course of
   Christ's further teaching, and of their learning in mind and heart.
   But, even thus, we perceive, that in their own call they had already,
   in measure, lived the miracle of the draught of fishes which they were
   about to witness. What had passed between Jesus and, first, the sons of
   Jona, and then those of Zebedee, can scarcely have occupied many
   minutes. But already the people were pressing around the Master in
   eager hunger for the Word; for, all the livelong night their own
   teachers had toiled, and taken nothing which they could give them as
   food. To such call the Fisher of Men could not be deaf. The boat of
   Peter shall be His pulpit; He had consecrated it by consecrating its
   owner. The boat has been thrust out a little from the land, and over
   the soft ripple of the waters comes the strange melody of that Word. We
   need scarcely ask what He spake. It would be of the Father, of the
   Kingdom, and of those who entered it - like what He spake from the
   Mount, or to those who laboured and were heavy laden. But it would
   carry to the hearers the wondrous beauty and glory of that opening
   Kingdom, and, by contrast, the deep poverty and need of their souls.
   And Peter had heard it all in the boat, as he sat close by, in the
   shadow of His Majesty. Then, this was the teaching of which he had
   become a disciple; this, the net and the fishing to which he was just
   called. How utterly miserable, in one respect, must it have made him.
   Could such an one as he ever hope, with whatever toil, to be a
   successful fisher?

   Jesus had read his thoughts, and much more than read them. It was all
   needed for the qualifying of Peter especially, but also of the others
   who had been called to be fishers of men. Presently it shall be all
   brought to light; not only that it may be made clear, but that, alike,
   the lesson and the help may be seen. And this is another object in
   Christ's miracles to His disciples: to make clear their inmost thoughts
   and longings, and to point them to the right goal. Launch out into the
   deep, and let down your nets for a draught.' That they toil in vain all
   life's night, only teaches the need of another beginning. The
   nevertheless, at Thy word,' marks the new trust, and the new work as
   springing from that trust. When Christ is in the boat and bids us let
   down the net, there must be a great multitude of fishes.' And all this
   in this symbolic miracle. Already the net was breaking,' when they
   beckoned to their partners in the other ship, that they should come and
   help them. And now both ships are burdened to the water's edge.

   But what did it all mean to Simon Peter? He had been called to full
   discipleship, and he had obeyed the call. He had been in his boat
   beside the Saviour, and heard what He had spoken, and it had gone to
   his heart. And now this miracle which he had witnessed! Such shoal of
   fish in one spot on the Lake of Galilee was not strange. The miraculous
   was, that the Lord had seen through those waters down where the
   multitude of fishes was, and bidden him let down for a draught. He
   could see through the intervening waters, right down to the bottom of
   that sea; He could see through him, to the very bottom of Peter's
   heart. He did see it - and all that Jesus had just spoken meant it, and
   showed him what was there. And could he then be a fisher of men, out of
   whose heart, after a life's night of toil, the net would come up empty,
   or rather only clogged with sand and torn with pebbles? This is what he
   meant when he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying: Depart from me, for I
   am a sinful man, O Lord.' And this is why Jesus comforted him: Fear
   not; from henceforth thou shalt catch men.' And so also, and so only,
   do we, each of us, learn the lesson of our calling, and receive the
   true comfort in it. Nor yet can anyone become a true fisher of men in
   any other than such manner.

   The teaching and the comfort required not to be repeated in the life of
   Peter, nor in that of the others who witnessed and shared in what had
   passed. Many are the truths which shine out from the symbolism of this
   scene, when the first disciples were first called. That call itself;
   the boat; the command of Christ, despite the night of vain toil; the
   unlikely success; the net and its cast at the bidding of Christ, with
   the absolute certitude of result, where He is and when He bids; the
   miraculous direction to the spot; the multitude of fishes enclosed; the
   net about to break, yet not breaking; the surprise, as strange perhaps
   as the miracle itself; and then, last of all, the lesson of
   self-knowledge and humiliation: all these and much more has the Church
   most truly read in this history. And as we turn from it, this stands
   out to us as its final outcome and lesson: And when they had brought
   their ships to land, they forsook all and followed Him.' [2267]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [2247] The accounts in the three Synoptic Gospels must be carefully
   pieced together. It will be seen that only thus can they be understood.
   The narratives of St. Matthew and St. Mark are almost literally the
   same, only adding in St. Mark i. 20 a notice about the hired servants,'
   which is evidential of the Petrine origin of the information. St. Luke
   seems to have made special inquiry, and, while adopting the narrative
   of the others, supplements it with what without them would be almost
   unintelligible.

   [2248] St. Luke v. 5.

   [2249] St. Matt. iv. 18 &c.; St. Mark i. 16 &c. as compared with St.
   Luke v. 2.

   [2250] In order not to impede navigation, it was forbidden to fix nets.
   For these two ordinances, see Baba K. 80 b, last line &c. The reference
   to the fishing in the lake is in 81 b. But see Tos. Baba K. viii. 17,
   18.

   [2251] St. Matt. vii. 10; xiii. 47; xv. 36.

   [2252] Ab. Z. 39 a.

   [2253] Bab. Mez ii. 1.

   [2254] Moed K. 11 a, last line.

   [2255] Three lines before that we read this saying of a fisherman:
   Roast fish with his brother (salt), lay it beside his father (water),
   eat it with his son (fish-juice), and drink upon it his father'
   (water).

   [2256] Jer. Sheq. vi. 2, p. 50 a.

   [2257] Shem. R. 9.

   [2258] Specially from Egypt and Spain, Machsh. vi. 3.

   [2259] Neh. iii. 3.

   [2260] Ber. 44 a.

   [2261] Jer. Ab. Z. ii. 10, p. 42 a.

   [2262] So in Erub. 30 a.

   [2263] Ab. i. 1; Sanh. 91 b.

   [2264] St. John i. 37 &c.

   [2265] St. Matt. iv. 20, 22.

   [2266] The name Peter occurs also among the Jews, but not that of Paul.
   Thus, in Pesiqta (ed. Buber, p. 158 a, line 8 from bottom, see also the
   Note there) we read of a R. José the son of Peytros, and similarly in
   the fragments from Tanchuma in Jellinek's Beth ha-Midr. vol. vi. p. 95,
   where, however, he is called Ben Petio. In Menor. Hamm. the name is
   changed into Phinehas. Comp. Jellinek, Beth ha-Midr. vol. vi. Pref. xi.

   [2267] We would call special attention to the arrangement of this
   narrative. The explanation given in the text will, it is hoped, be
   sufficient answer to the difficulties raised by some commentators.
   Strauss' attempt to indicate the mythic origin of this narrative forms
   one of the weakest parts of his book. Keim holds the genuineness of the
   account of the two first Evangelists, but rejects that of the third, on
   grounds which neither admit nor require detailed examination. The
   latest and most curious idea of the Tubingen school has been, to see in
   the account of St. Luke a reflection on Peter as Judaistically cramped,
   and to understand the beckoning to his partners as implying the calling
   in of Pauline teachers.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XIV.
A SABBATH IN CAPERNAUM

   (St. Matt. viii 14-17; St. Mark i. 21-34; St. Luke iv. 33-41.)

   It was the Holy Sabbath - the first after He had called around Him His
   first permanent disciples; the first, also, after His return from the
   Feast at Jerusalem. Of both we can trace indications in the account of
   that morning, noon, and evening which the Evangelists furnish. The
   greater detail with which St. Mark, who wrote under the influence of
   St. Peter, tells these events, shows the freshness and vividness of
   impression on the mind of Peter of those early days of his new life. As
   indicating that what is here recorded took place immediately after the
   return of Jesus from Jerusalem, we mark, that as yet there were no
   watchful enemies in waiting to entrap Him in such breach of the Law, as
   might furnish ground for judicial procedure. But, from their presence
   and activity so soon afterwards, [2268] we infer, that the authorities
   of Jerusalem had sent some of their familiars to track His steps in
   Galilee.

   But as yet all seemed calm and undisturbed. Those simple, warm-hearted
   Galileans yielded themselves to the power of His words and works, not
   discerning hidden blasphemy in what He said, nor yet
   Sabbath-desecration in His healing on God's holy day. It is morning,
   and Jesus goes to the Synagogue at Capernaum. [2269] To teach there,
   was now His wont. But frequency could not lessen the impression. In
   describing the Influence of His Person or words the Evangelists use a
   term, which really means amazement. [2270] And when we find the same
   word to describe the impression of the Sermon on the Mount,' [2271] the
   inference is naturally suggested, that it presents the type, if it does
   not sum up the contents, of some of His Synagogue-discourses. It is not
   necessary to suppose that, what held His hearers spell-bound, had
   necessarily also its effect on their hearts and lives. Men may be
   enraptured by the ideal without trying to make it the real. Too often
   it is even in inverse proportion; so that those who lead not the most
   moral lives even dare to denounce the New Testament standpoint, as
   below their own conceptions of right and duty. But there is that in
   man, evidence of his origin and destiny, which always and involuntarily
   responds to the presentation of the higher. And in this instance it was
   not only what He taught, but the contrast with that to which they had
   been accustomed on the part of the Scribes,' which filled them with
   amazement. There was no appeal to human authority, other than that of
   the conscience; no subtle logical distinctions, legal niceties, nor
   clever sayings. Clear, limpid, and crystalline, flowed His words from
   out the spring of the Divine Life that was in Him.

   Among the hearers in the Synagogue that Sabbath morning was one of a
   class, concerning whose condition, whatever difficulties may attach to
   our proper understanding of it, the reader of the New Testament must
   form some definite idea. The term demoniacal possession' occurs not in
   the New Testament. We owe it to Josephus, [2272] from whom it has
   passed into ecclesiastical language. We dismiss it the more readily,
   that, in our view, it conveys a wrong impression. The New Testament
   speaks of those who had a spirit, or a demon, or demons, or an unclean
   spirit, or the spirit of an unclean demon, but chiefly of persons who
   were demonised.' [2273] Similarly, it seems a strange inaccuracy on the
   part of commentators to exclude from the Gospel, of St. John all notice
   of the demonised.' That the Fourth Gospel, although not reporting any
   healing of the demonised, shares the fundamental view of the
   Synoptists, appears not only from St. John vii. 20, viii. 48, 52, but
   especially from viii. 49 and x. 20, 21. [2274] We cannot believe that
   the writer of the Fourth Gospel would have put into the mouth of Jesus
   the answer I am not a demon,' or have allowed Him to be described by
   His friends as not one demonised,' without a single word to show
   dissent from the popular view, if he had not shared the ideas of the
   Synoptists. In discussing a question of such very serious import in the
   study and criticism of the Gospels, the precise facts of the case
   should in the first place be clearly ascertained.

   The first question here is, whether Christ Himself shared the views,
   not indeed of His contemporaries (for these, as we shall see, were very
   different), but of the Evangelists in regard to what they call the
   demonised?' This has been extensively denied, and Christ represented as
   only unwilling needlessly to disturb a popular prejudice, which He
   could not at the time effectually combat. But the theory requires more
   than this; and, since Christ not only tolerated, but in addressing the
   demonised actually adopted, or seemed to adopt, the prevailing view, it
   has been argued, that, for the sake of these poor afflicted persons, He
   acted like a physician who appears to enter into the fancy of his
   patient, in order the more effectually to heal him of it. This view
   seems, however, scarcely worth refuting, since it imputes to Jesus, on
   a point so important, a conduct not only unworthy of Him, or indeed of
   any truly great man, but implies a canon of accommodation' which might
   equally be applied to His Miracles, or to anything else that
   contravened the notions of an interpreter, and so might transform the
   whole Gospel-narratives into a series of historically untrustworthy
   legends. But we will not rest the case on what might be represented as
   an appeal to prejudice. For, we find that Jesus not only tolerated the
   popular prejudice,' or that He adopted it for the sake of more readily
   healing those thus afflicted' - but that He even made it part of His
   disciples' commission to cast out demons,' [2275] and that, when the
   disciples afterwards reported their success in this, Christ actually
   made it a matter of thanksgiving to God. [2276] The same view underlies
   His reproof to the disciples, when failing in this part of their work;
   [2277] while in St. Luke xi. 19, 24, He adopts, and argues on this view
   as against the Pharisees. Regarded therefore in the light of history,
   impartial criticism can arrive at no other conclusion, than that Jesus
   of Nazareth shared the views of the Evangelists as regards the
   demonised.' [2278]

   Our next inquiry must be as to the character of the phenomenon thus
   designated. In view of the fact that in St. Mark ix. 21, the demonised
   had been such of a child,' it is scarcely possible to ascribe it simply
   to moral causes. Similarly, personal faith does not seem to have been a
   requisite condition of healing. Again, as other diseases are mentioned
   without being attributed to demoniacal influence, and as all who were
   dumb, deaf, or paralysed would not have been described as demonised,'
   it is evident that all physical, or even mental distempers of the same
   class were not ascribed to the same cause: some might be natural, while
   others were demoniacal. On the other hand, there were more or less
   violent symptoms of disease in every demonised person, and these were
   greatly aggravated in the last paroxysm, when the demon quitted his
   habitation. We have, therefore, to regard the phenomena described as
   caused by the influence of such spirits,' primarily, upon that which
   forms the nexus between body and mind, the nervous system, and as
   producing different physical effects, according to the part of the
   nervous system affected. To this must be added a certain impersonality
   of consciousness, so that for the time the consciousness was not that
   of the demonised, but the demoniser, just as in certain mesmeric states
   the consciousness of the mesmerised is really that of the mesmeriser.
   We might carry the analogy farther, and say, that the two states are
   exactly parallel - the demon or demons taking the place of the
   mesmeriser, only that the effects were more powerful and extensive,
   perhaps more enduring. But one point seems to have been assumed, for
   which there is, to say the least, no evidence, viz., that because, at
   least in many cases, the disease caused by the demon was permanent,
   therefore those who were so affected were permanently or constantly
   under the power of the demon. Neither the New Testament, nor even
   Rabbinic literature, conveys the idea of permanent demoniac indwelling,
   to which the later term possession' owes its origin. [2279] On the
   contrary, such accounts, as that of the scene in the Synagogue of
   Capernaum, convey the impression of a sudden influence, which in most
   cases seems occasioned by the spiritual effect of the Person or of the
   Words of the Christ. To this historical sketch we have only to add,
   that the phenomenon is not referred to either in the Old Testament.
   [2280] or in the Apocrypha, [2281] nor, for that matter in the Mishnah,
   [2282] where, indeed, from the character of its contents, one would
   scarcely expect to find it. But we find it mentioned not only in the
   New Testament, but in the writings of Josephus. [2283] The references
   in heathen or in Christian writings posterior to those of the New
   Testament lie beyond our present inquiry. [2284]

   In view of these facts, we may arrive at some more definite
   conclusions. Those who contend that the representations of the
   Evangelists are identical with the popular Jewish notions of the time,
   must be ill acquainted with the latter. What these were, is explained
   in another place. [2285] Suffice it here to state that, whatever want
   of clearness there may be about the Jewish ideas of demoniac
   influences, there is none as to the means proposed for their removal.
   These may be broadly classified as: magical means for the prevention of
   such influences (such as the avoidance of certain places, times,
   numbers, or circumstances; amulets, &c.); magical means for the cure of
   diseases; and direct exorcism (either by certain outward means, or else
   by formulas of incantation). Again, while the New Testament furnishes
   no data by which to learn the views of Jesus or of the Evangelists
   regarding the exact character of the phenomenon, it furnishes the
   fullest details as to the manner in which the demonished were set free.
   This was always the same. It consisted neither in magical means
   formulas of exorcism, but always in the Word of Power which Jesus
   spake, or entrusted to His disciples, and which the demons always
   obeyed. There is here not only difference, but contrariety in
   comparison with the current Jewish notions, and it leads to the
   conclusion that there was the same contrast in His views, as in His
   treatment of the demonised.'

   Jewish superstition in regard to the demoniacal state can, therefore,
   no more affect the question of the credibility of the Gospel-accounts
   of it, than can quotations from heathen or from post-Apostolic
   Christian writers. In truth, it must be decided purely on New Testament
   grounds; and resolves itself into that of the general trustworthiness
   of the Evangelic narratives, and of our estimate of the Person of
   Christ. Thus viewed, he who regards Jesus as the Messiah and the Son of
   God can be in no doubt. If we are asked to explain the rationale of the
   phenomenon, or of its cessation - if, indeed, it has wholly and
   everywhere ceased - we might simply decline to attempt that for which
   we have not sufficient data, and this, without implying that such did
   not exist, or that, if known, they would not wholly vindicate the facts
   of the case. At any rate, it does not follow that there are no such
   data because we do not possess them; nor is there any ground for the
   contention that, if they existed, we ought to possess them. For,
   admittedly, the phenomenon was only a temporary one.

   And yet certain considerations will occur to the thoughtful reader,
   which, if they do not explain, will at least make him hesitate to
   designate as inexplicable, the facts in question. In our view, at
   least, he would be a bold interpreter who would ascribe all the
   phenomena even of heathen magic to jugglery, or else to purely physical
   causes. Admittedly they have ceased, or perhaps, as much else, assumed
   other forms, just as, so far as evidence goes, demoniac influence has -
   at least in the form presented in the New Testament. But, that it has
   so ceased, does not prove that it never existed. If we believe that the
   Son of God came to destroy the works of the Devil, we can understand
   the developed enmity of the kingdom of darkness; and if we regard
   Christ as Very God, taking, in manner to us mysterious, Humanity, we
   can also perceive how the Prince of Darkness might, in counterfeit,
   seek through the demonised a temporary dwelling in Humanity for
   purposes of injury and destruction, as Christ for healing and
   salvation. In any case, holding as we do that this demoniac influence
   was not permanent in the demonised, the analogy of certain mesmeric
   influences seems exactly to apply. No reference is here made to other
   supernatural spirit-influences of which many in our days speak, and
   which, despite the lying and imposture probably connected with them,
   have a background of truth and reality, which, at least in the present
   writer's experience, cannot be absolutely denied. In the mysterious
   connection between the sensuous and supersensuous, spirit and matter,
   there are many things which the vulgar bread-and-butter philosophy'
   fails rightly to apportion, or satisfactorily to explain. That, without
   the intervention of sensuous media, mind can, may, and does affect
   mind; that even animals, in proportion to their sensitiveness, or in
   special circumstances, are affected by that which is not, or else not
   yet, seen, and this quite independently of man; that, in short, there
   are not a few phenomena in heaven and earth' of which our philosophy
   dreams not - these are considerations which, however the superficial
   sciolist may smile at them, no earnest inquirer would care to dismiss
   with peremptory denial. And superstition only begins when we look for
   them, or else when we attempt to account for and explain them, not in
   the admission of their possibility.

   But, in our view, it is of the deepest importance always to keep in
   mind, that the demonised' was not a permanent state, or possession by
   the powers of darkness. For, it establishes a moral element, since,
   during the period of their temporary liberty, the demonised might have
   shaken themselves free from the overshadowing power, or sought release
   from it. Thus the demonised state involved personal responsibility,
   although that of a diseased and disturbed consciousness.

   In one respect those who were demonised' exhibited the same phenomenon.
   They all owned the Power of Jesus. It was not otherwise in the
   Synagogue at Capernaum on that Sabbath-morning. What Jesus had spoken
   produced an immediate effect on the demonised, though one which could
   scarcely have been anticipated. For, there is authority for inserting
   the word straightway' [2286] immediately after the account of Jesus'
   preaching. Yet, as we think of it, we cannot imagine that the demon
   would have continued silent nor yet that he could have spoken other
   than the truth in the Presence of the God-Man. There must be, and yet
   there cannot be, resistance. The very Presence of the Christ meant the
   destruction of this work of the Devil. Involuntarily, in his confessed
   inability of disguise or resistance, he owns defeat, even before the
   contest. What have we to do with Thee, Jesus of Nazareth? [2287] Thou
   art come to destroy us! [2288] I know Thee Who Thou art, the Holy One
   of God.' And yet there seems in these words already an emergence of the
   consciousness of the demonised, at least in so far that there is no
   longer confusion between him and his tormenter, and the latter speaks
   in his own name. One stronger than the demon had affected the higher
   part in the demonised. It was the Holy One of God, in Whose Presence
   the powers of moral destruction cannot be silent, but must speak, and
   own their subjection and doom. The Christ needs not to contend: that He
   is the Christ, is itself victory.

   But this was not all. He had come not only to destroy the works of the
   Devil. His Incarnation meant this - and more: to set the prisoners
   free. By a word of command He gagged [2289] the confessions of the
   demon, unwilling made, and even so with hostile intent. It was not by
   such voices that He would have His Messiahship ever proclaimed. Such
   testimony was wholly unfitting and incongruous; it would have been a
   strange discord on the witness of the Baptist and the Voice Which had
   proclaimed Him from heaven. And, truly, had it been admitted, it would
   have strangely jarred in a Life which needed not, and asked not even
   the witness of men, but appealed straightway to God Himself. Nor can we
   fail to perceive how, had it been allowed, it would have given a true
   ground to what the Pharisees sought to assign as the interpretation of
   His Power, that by the Prince of Demons He cast out demons. And thus
   there is here also deep accord with the fundamental idea which was the
   outcome of His Temptation: that not the seemingly shortest, but the
   Divine way must lead Him to the goal, and that goal not Royal
   proclamation, but the Resurrection.

   The same power which gagged the confession also bade the demon
   relinquish his prey. One wild paroxysm - and the sufferer was for ever
   free. But on them all who saw and heard it fell the utter stupor and
   confusion of astonishment. [2290] Each turned to his neighbour with the
   inquiry: What is this? A new doctrine with authority! And He commandeth
   the unclean spirits, and they obey Him.' [2291] Well might they
   inquire. It had been a threefold miracle: a new doctrine;' with
   authority;' and obedience of the unclean spirits to His command. There
   is throughout, and especially in the account of the casting out of the
   demon, such un-Jewish simplicity, with entire absence of what would
   have been characteristic in a Jewish exorcist; such want of all that
   one would have expected, if the event had been invented, or coloured
   for a purpose, or tinged by contemporary notions; and, withal, such
   sublimity and majesty, that it is difficult to understand how any one
   can resist the impression of its reality, or that He Who so spake and
   did was in truth the Son of God.

   From the Synagogue we follow the Saviour, in company with His called
   disciples, to Peter's wedded home. But no festive meal, as was Jewish
   wont, awaited them there. A sudden access of violent burning fever,'
   [2292] such as is even now common in that district, had laid Peter's
   mother-in-law prostrate. If we had still any lingering thought of
   Jewish magical cures as connected with those of Jesus, what is now
   related must dispel it. The Talmud gives this disease precisely the
   same name ({hebrew} Eshatha Tsemirta), burning fever,' and prescribes
   for it a magical remedy, of which the principal part is to tie a knife
   wholly of iron by a braid of hair to a thornbush, and to repeat on
   successive days Exod. iii. 2,3, then ver. 4, and finally ver. 5, after
   which the bush is to be cut down, while a certain magical formula is
   pronounced. [2293] How different from this, alike in its sublime
   simplicity and in the majestic bearing of Him Who healed, is the
   Evangelic narrative of the cure of Peter's mother-in-law. To ignore, in
   our estimate of the trustworthiness of the Gospels, this essential
   contrast, would be a grave historical mistake. Jesus is told' of the
   sickness; He is besought for her who is stricken down. In His Presence
   disease and misery cannot continue. Bending over the sufferer, He
   rebuked the fever,' just as He had rebuked [2294] the demon' in the
   Synagogue, and for the same reason, since all disease, in the view of
   the Divine Healer, is the outcome of sin. Then lifting her by the hand,
   she rose up, healed, to minister' unto them. It was the first Diaconate
   [2295] of woman in the Church - might we not almost say, in the world?
   - a Diaconate to Christ, and to those that were His; the Diaconate of
   one healed by Christ; a Diaconate immediately following such healing.
   The first, this, of a long course of woman's Diaconate to Christ, in
   which, for the first time, woman attained her true position. And what a
   Sabbath-meal it must have been, after that scene in the Synagogue and
   after that healing in the house, when Jesus was the Guest, they who had
   witnessed it all sat at meat with Him, and she who had been healed was
   the Deaconess. Would that such were ever our Christian festive meals!

   It was evening. The sun was setting, and the Sabbath past. All that day
   it had been told from home to home what had been done in the Synagogue;
   it had been whispered what had taken place in the house of their
   neighbour Simon. This one conviction had been borne in upon them all,
   that with authority' He spake, with authority and power He commanded
   even the unclean spirits, and they obeyed. No scene more characteristic
   of the Christ than that on this autumn evening at Capernaum. One by one
   the stars had shone out over the tranquil Lake and the festive city,
   lighting up earth's darkness with heaven's soft brilliancy, as if they
   stood there witnesses, that God had fulfilled His good promise to
   Abraham. [2296] On that evening no one in Capernaum thought of
   business, pleasure, or rest. There must have been many homes of sorrow,
   care, and sickness there, and in the populous neighbourhood around. To
   them, to all, had the door of hope now been opened. Truly, a new Sun
   had risen on them, with healing in His wings. No disease too desperate,
   when even the demons owned the authority of His mere rebuke. From all
   parts they bring them: mothers, widows, wives, fathers, children,
   husbands - their loved ones, the treasures they had almost lost; and
   the whole city throngs - a hushed, solemnised, overawed multitude -
   expectant, waiting at the door of Simon's dwelling. There they laid
   them, along the street up to the market-place, on their beds; or
   brought them, with beseeching look and word. What a symbol of this
   world's misery, need, and hope; what a symbol, also, of what the Christ
   really is as the Consoler in the world's manifold woe! Never, surely,
   was He more truly the Christ; nor is He in symbol more truly such to us
   and to all time, than when, in the stillness of that evening, under the
   starlit sky, He went through that suffering throng, laying His hands in
   the blessing of healing on every one of them, and casting out many
   devils. No picture of the Christ more dear to us, than this of the
   unlimited healing of whatever disease of body or soul. In its blessed
   indefiniteness it conveys the infinite potentiality of relief, whatever
   misery have fallen on us, or whatever care or sorrow oppress us. He
   must be blind, indeed, who sees not in this Physician the Divine
   Healer; in this Christ the Light of the World; the Restoror of what sin
   had blighted; the Joy in our world's deep sorrow. Never was prophecy
   more truly fulfilled than, on that evening, this of Isaiah: Himself
   took our infirmities, and bare our sicknesses.' [2297] By His
   Incarnation and Coming, by His taking our infirmities, and bearing our
   sicknesses - for this in the truest and widest sense is the meaning of
   the Incarnation of the Christ - did He become the Healer, the Consoler
   of humanity, its Saviour in all ills of time, and from all ills of
   eternity. The most real fulfilment this, that can be conceived, of
   Isaiah's rapt vision of Who and what the Messiah was to be, and to do;
   not, indeed, what is sometimes called fulfilment, or expected as such,
   in a literal and verbal correspondence with the prediction. An utterly
   mechanical, external, and unspiritual view this of prophecy, in which,
   in quite Jewish literalism, the spirit is crushed by the letter. But,
   viewed in its real bearing on mankind with its wants, Christ, on that
   evening, was the real, though as yet only initial, fulfilment of the
   world's great hope, to which, centuries before, the God-directed hand
   of the prophet had pointed. [2298]

   So ended that Sabbath in Capernaum: a Sabbath of healing, joy, and true
   rest. But far and wide, into every place of the country around,
   throughout all the region of Galilee, spread the tidings, and with them
   the fame of Him Whom demons must obey, though they dare not pronounce
   Him the Son of God. And on men's ears fell His Name with sweet softness
   of infinite promise, like rain upon the mown grass, as showers that
   water the earth.'
     __________________________________________________________________

   [2268] St. Luke v. 21; vi.2; vi. 7.

   [2269] The accounts of this given by St. Mark and St. Luke
   chronologically precede what is related in St. Matt. viii. 14-17. The
   reader is requested in each case to peruse the Biblical narratives
   before, or along with their commentation in the chapters of the present
   work.

   [2270] The following are the passages in which the same term is used:
   St. Matt. vii. 28; xiii. 54; xix. 25; xxii. 33; St. Mark i. 22; vi. 2;
   vii. 37; x. 26; xi. 18; St. Luke ii. 48; iv. 32; ix. 43; Acts xiii. 12.

   [2271] St. Matt. vii. 28.

   [2272] Comp. Delitzsch in Riehm's Hand-worter-buch.

   [2273] The word spirit' or spirits' occurs twice in St. Matthew, thrice
   in St. Mark and twice in St. Luke; with the addition evil,' twice in
   St. Luke; with that of unclean,' once in St. Matthew, eleven times in
   St. Mark, and four times in St. Luke. The word damon in singular or
   plural occurs once in each of the Synoptists; while daimnion, in
   singular or plural, occurs nine times in St. Matthew, three times in
   St. Mark, fourteen times in St. Luke, and six times in St. John. The
   expression the spirit of an unclean demon' occurs once in the St. Luke,
   while the verb to be demonished' occurs, in one form or another, seven
   times in St. Matthew, four times in St. Mark, once in St. Luke, and
   once in St. John. Comp. also the careful brochure of Pastor Nanz, Die
   Besessenen im N.T., although we differ from his conclusions.

   [2274] Comp. also Weiss, Leben Jesu i. p. 457.

   [2275] St. Matt. x. 8.

   [2276] St. Luke x. 17, 18.

   [2277] St. Matt. xvii. 21; comp. also xii. 43 &c., also spoken to the
   disciples.

   [2278] This is also the conclusion arrived at by Weiss, u. s.

   [2279] The nearest approach to it, so far as I am aware, occurs in
   Pirqé de R. El. c. 13 (ed. Lemberg, p. 16 b, 17 a), where the influence
   of Satan over the serpent (in the history of the Fall) is likened to
   that of an evil spirit over a man, all whose deeds and words are done
   under the influence of the demon, so that he only acts at his bidding.

   [2280] Surely Strauss (Leben Jesu, ii. 10) could not have remembered
   the expressions in 1 Sam. xvi. 14, 15, &c., when he sees a parallel to
   demoniacal possessions in the case of Saul.

   [2281] Tob. viii. 2, 3, is not a case in point.

   [2282] Gfrörer (Jahrh. d. Heils, i. p. 410, 412) quotes Erub. iv. 1 and
   Gitt. vii. 1; but neither of these passages implies anything like
   demoniac possession.

   [2283] See, for example, Ant vi. 8. 2; 11. 3; viii. 2. 5; War vii. 6.
   3.

   [2284] The reader will find full references in the Encyclopædias, in
   Wetstein (Nov. Test. i. pp. 279-284), and in Nanz's brochure.

   [2285] See Appendix XVI.: Jewish Views about Demons and the demonised.'

   [2286] In St. Mark i. 23.

   [2287] I have omitted, on critical grounds, the clause, Let us alone.'
   The expression, What between us and Thee, Jesu Nazarene,' contains a
   well-known Hebraism.

   [2288] This seems the more correct rendering.

   [2289] This is the real meaning of the expression rendered, Hold thy
   peace.' It stills the raging of the powers of evil just as,
   characteristically, it is again employed in the stilling of the storm,
   St. Mark iv. 39.

   [2290] The Greek term implies this. Besides its use in this narrative
   (St. Mark i. 27; St. Luke iv. 36, in the latter in the substantive
   form), it occurs in St. Mark x. 24, 32; Acts ix. 6; and as a
   substantive in Acts iii. 10.

   [2291] This seems the better rendering.

   [2292] Such is the meaning of the Greek word. I cannot understand, why
   the corresponding term in St. Luke should have been interpreted in The
   Speaker's Commentary' as typhoid fever.'

   [2293] Shabb. 37 a.

   [2294] The word is the same in both cases.

   [2295] The term is the same. See the remarks of Volkmar (Marcus, pp.
   99, 100).

   [2296] Gen. xxii. 17, 18.

   [2297] Is. liii.

   [2298] I can scarcely find words strong enough to express my dissent
   from those who would limit Is. liii. 4, either on the one hand to
   spiritual, or on the other to physical sicknesses.' The promise is one
   of future deliverance from both, of a Restorer from all the woe which
   sin had brought. In the same way the expression taking upon Himself,'
   and bearing' refers to the Christ as our Deliverer, because our
   Substitute. Because He took upon Himself our infirmities, therefore He
   bore our sicknesses. That the view here given is that of the N.T.,
   appears from a comparison of the application of the passage in St.
   Matt. viii. 17 with that in St. John i. 29 and 1 Pet. ii. 24. The
   words, as given by St. Matthew, are most truly a N.T. Targum' of the
   original. The LXX. renders, This man carries our sins and is pained for
   us;' Symmachus, Surely He took up our sins, and endured our labors;'
   the Targum Jon., Thus for our sins He will pray, and our iniquities
   will for His sake be forgiven.' (Comp. Driver and Neubauer, The Jewish
   Interpreters on Isaiah liii., vol. ii.) Lastly, it is with reference to
   this passage that the Messiah bears in the Talmud the designation, The
   Leprous One,' and the Sick One' (Sanh. 98 b).
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XV.
SECOND JOURNEY THROUGH GALILEE - THE HEALING OF THE LEPER.

   (St. Matt. iv. 23; viii. 2-4; St. Mark i. 35-45; St. Luke iv. 42-44; v.
   12-16.)

   A DAY and an evening such as of that Sabbath of healing in Capernaum
   must, with reverence be it written, have been followed by what opens
   the next section. [2299] To the thoughtful observer there is such
   unbroken harmony in the Life of Jesus, such accord of the inward and
   outward, as to carry instinctive conviction of the truth of its record.
   It was, so to speak, an inward necessity that the God-Man, when brought
   into contact with disease and misery, whether from physical or
   supernatural causes, should remove it by His Presence, by His touch, by
   His Word. An outward necessity also, because no other mode of teaching
   equally convincing would have reached those accustomed to Rabbinic
   disputations, and who must have looked for such a manifestation from
   One Who claimed such authority. And yet, so far from being a mere
   worker of miracles, as we should have expected if the history of His
   miracles had been of legendary origin, there is nothing more marked
   than the pain, we had almost said the humiliation, which their
   necessity seems to have carried to His heart. Except ye see signs and
   wonders, ye will not believe;' an evil and adulterous generation
   seeketh a sign;' blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have
   believed' - such are the utterances of Him Who sighed when He opened
   the ears of the deaf, [2300] and bade His Apostles look for higher and
   better things than power over all diseases or even over evil spirits.
   [2301] [2302] So would not the Messiah of Jewish legend have spoken or
   done; nor would they who invented such miracles have so referred to
   them.

   In truth, when, through the rift in His outward history, we catch a
   glimpse of Christ's inner Being, these miracles, so far as not the
   outcome of the mystic union of the Divine and the Human in His Person,
   but as part of His Mission, form part of His Humiliation. They also
   belong to that way which He had chosen in his initial conquest of the
   Tempter in the Wilderness, when He chose, not the sudden display of
   absolute power for the subdual of His people, but the painful, slow
   method of meeting the wants, and addressing Himself to the
   understanding and capacity of those over Whom He would reign. In this
   view, it seems as if we could gain a fresh understanding, not only of
   the expediency of His final departure, so far as concerned the future
   teaching of the disciples by the Holy Spirit, but of His own longing
   for the Advent of the Comforter. In truth, the two teachers and the two
   modes of teaching could not be together, and the Ascension of the
   Christ, as the end of His Humiliation, marked the Advent of the Holy
   Ghost, as bestowing another mode of teaching than that of the days of
   His Humiliation.

   And so, thinking of the scene on the evening before, we can understand
   how, very early, while it was still very dark,' [2303] Jesus rose up,
   and went into a solitary place to pray. The use of the same expression
   [2304] in St. Mark xiii. 35 enables us to fix the time as that of the
   fourth night-watch, or between three and six o'clock of the morning. It
   was not till some time afterwards, that even those, who had so lately
   been called to His closest fellowship, rose, and, missing Him,
   followed. Jesus had prayed in that solitude, and consecrated it. After
   such a day, and in prospect of entering on His second journey through
   Galilee [2305] - this time in so far different circumstances - He must
   prevent the dawn of the morning in prayer. And by this also would they
   learn, that He was not merely a worker of miracles, but that He, Whose
   Word demons obeyed, lived a Life, not of outward but of inward power,
   in fellowship with His Father, and baptized his work with prayer. But
   as yet, and, indeed, in measure all through His Life on earth, it
   seemed difficult for them in any measure to realise this. All men seek
   for Thee,' and therefore they would have had Him return to Capernaum.
   But this was the very reason why He had withdrawn ere dawn of day. He
   had come forth, and that, [2306] not to attract the crowds, and be
   proclaimed a King, but to preach the Kingdom of God. Once more we say
   it: so speaks not, nor acts the hero of Jewish legend!

   As the three Synoptists accordantly state, Jesus now entered on His
   second Galilean journey. There can be little doubt, that the
   chronological succession of events is here accurately indicated by the
   more circumstantial narrative in St. Mark's Gospel. [2307] The
   arrangement of St. Luke appears that of historical grouping, while that
   of St. Matthew is determined by the Hebraic plan of his Gospel, which
   seems constructed on the model of the Pentateuch, [2308] as if the
   establishment of the Kingdom by the Messiah were presented as the
   fulfilment of its preparatory planting in Israel. But this second
   journey through Galilee, which the three Gospels connect with the stay
   at Capernaum, marks a turning-point in the working of the Christ. As
   already stated, the occurrences at the Unknown Feast,' [2309] in
   Jerusalem, formed a new point of departure. Christ had fully presented
   His claims to the Sanhedrists, and they had been fully rejected by the
   Scribes and the people. Henceforth He separated Himself from that
   untoward generation;' henceforth, also, began His systematic
   persecution by the authorities, when His movements were tracked and
   watched. Jesus went alone to Jerusalem. This, also, was fitting.
   Equally so, that on His return He called His disciples to be His
   followers; and that from Capernaum He entered, in their company, on a
   new phase in His Work.

   Significantly, His Work began where that of the Rabbis, we had almost
   said of the Old Testament saints, ended. Whatever remedies, medical,
   magical, or sympathetic, Rabbinic writings may indicate for various
   kinds of disease, leprosy is not included in the catalogue. They left
   aside what even the Old Testament marked as moral death, by enjoining
   those so stricken to avoid all contact with the living, and even to
   bear the appearance of mourners. As the leper passed by, his clothes
   rent, his hair dishevelled, [2310] and the lower part of his face and
   his upper lip covered, [2311] it was as one going to death who reads
   his own burial-service, while the mournful words, Unclean! Unclean!'
   which he uttered, proclaimed that his was both living and moral death.
   Again, the Old Testament, and even Rabbinism, took, in the measures
   prescribed in leprosy, primarily a moral, or rather a ritual, and only
   secondarily a sanitary, view of the case. The isolation already
   indicated, which banished lepers from all intercourse except with those
   similarly stricken, [2312] and forebade their entering not only the
   Temple or Jerusalem, but any walled city, [2313] could not have been
   merely prompted by the wish to prevent infection. For all the laws in
   regard to leprosy are expressly stated not to have application in the
   case of heathens, proselytes before their conversion, and even of
   Israelites on their birth. [2314] The same inference must also be drawn
   from the circumstance, that the priestly examination and subsequent
   isolation of the leper were not to commence during the marriage-week,
   or on festive days, [2315] since, evidently, infection would have been
   most likely to spread in such circumstances. [2316]

   It has already been stated, that Rabbinism confessed itself powerless
   in presence of this living death. Although, as Michaelis rightly
   suggests, [2317] the sacrificial ritual for the cleansed leper implies,
   at least, the possibility of a cure, it is in every instance traced to
   the direct agency of God. [2318] Hence the mythical theory, which, to
   be rational, must show some precedent to account for the origination of
   the narrative in the Gospel, here once more breaks down. [2319] Keim
   cannot deny the evident authenticity of the Evangelic narrative, and
   has no better explanation to offer than that of the old Rationalists -
   which Strauss had already so fully refuted [2320] - that the poor
   sufferer only asked of Jesus to declare, not to make, him clean. [2321]
   In truth, the possibility of any cure through human agency was never
   contemplated by the Jews. Josephus speaks of it as possibly granted to
   prayer, [2322] but in a manner betokening a pious phraseology without
   serious meaning. We may go further, and say that not only did Rabbinism
   never suggest the cure of a leper, but that its treatment of those
   sufferers presents the most marked contrast to that of the Saviour. And
   yet, as if writing its own condemnation, one of the titles which it
   gives to the Messiah is the Leprous,' the King Messiah being
   represented as seated in the entrance to Rome, surrounded by, and
   relieving all misery and disease, in fulfilment of Is. liii. 4. [2323]
   [2324]

   We need not here enumerate the various symptoms, by which the Rabbinic
   law teaches us to recognise true leprosy. [2325] Any one capable of it
   might make the medical inspection, although only a descendant of Aaron
   could formally pronounce clean or unclean. [2326] Once declared
   leprous, the sufferer was soon made to feel the utter heartlessness of
   Rabbinism. To banish him outside walled towns [2327] may have been a
   necessity, which, perhaps, required to be enforced by the threatened
   penalty of forty stripes save one. [2328] Similarly, it might be a
   right, even merciful, provision, that in the Synagogues lepers were to
   be the first to enter and the last to leave, and that they should
   occupy a separate compartment (Mechitsah), ten palms high, and six feet
   wide. [2329] For, from the symbolism and connection between the
   physical and the psychical, [2330] the Old Testament, in its rites and
   institutions, laid the greatest stress on clean and unclean.' To sum it
   up in briefest compass, and leaving out of view leprosy of clothes or
   houses, [2331] according to the Old Testament, defilement was conveyed
   only by the animal body, and attached to no other living body than that
   of man, nor could any other living body than that of man communicate
   defilement. The Old Testament mentioned eleven principal kinds of
   defilement. These, as being capable of communicating further
   defilement, were designated Abhoth hattumeoth - fathers of defilements'
   - the defilement which they produced being either itself an Abh
   hattumeah, or else a Child,' or a Child's Child of defilement'
   ({hebrew}). We find in Scripture thirty-two Abhoth hattumeoth, as they
   are called. To this Rabbinic tradition added other twenty-nine. Again,
   according to Scripture, these fathers of defilements' affected only in
   two degrees; the direct effect produced by them being designated the
   beginning,' or the first,' and that further propagated, the second'
   degree. But Rabbinic ordinances added a third, fourth, and even fifth
   degree of defilement. [2332] From this, as well as the equally
   intricate arrangements about purification, the Mishnic section about
   clean and unclean' is at the same time the largest and most intricate
   in the Rabbinic code, while its provisions touched and interfered, more
   than any others, with every department of life.

   In the elaborate code of defilements leprosy was not only one of the
   fathers of uncleanness,' but, next to defilement from the dead, stood
   foremost amongst them. Not merely actual contact with the leper, but
   even his entrance defiled a habitation, [2333] and everything in it, to
   the beams of the roof. [2334] But beyond this, Rabbinic harshness or
   fear carried its provisions to the utmost sequences of an unbending
   logic. It is, indeed, true that, as in general so especially in this
   instance, Rabbinism loved to trace disease to moral causes. No death
   without sin, and no pain without transgression;' [2335] the sick is not
   healed, till all his sins are forgiven him.' [2336] These are
   oft-repeated sayings; but, when closely examined, they are not quite so
   spiritual as they sound. For, first, they represent a reaction against
   the doctrine of original sin, in the sense that it is not the Fall of
   man, but one's actual transgression, to which disease and death are to
   be traced according to the saying: Not the serpent kills, but sin.'
   [2337] [2338] But their real unspirituality appears most clearly, when
   we remember how special diseases were traced to particular sins. Thus,
   [2339] childlessness and leprosy are described as chastisements, which
   indeed procure for the sufferer forgiveness of sins, but cannot, like
   other chastisements, be regarded as the outcome of love, nor be
   received in love. [2340] And even such sentiments in regard to
   sufferings [2341] are immediately followed by such cynical declarations
   on the part of Rabbis so afflicted, as that they loved neither the
   chastisement, nor its reward. [2342] And in regard to leprosy,
   tradition had it that, as leprosy attached to the house, the dress, or
   the person, these were to be regarded as always heavier strokes,
   following as each successive warning had been neglected, and a
   reference to this was seen in Prov. xix. 29. [2343] [2344] Eleven sins
   are mentioned [2345]   which bring leprosy, among them pre-eminently
   those of which the tongue is the organ. [2346]

   Still, if such had been the real views of Rabbinism one might have
   expected that Divine compassion would have been extended to those, who
   bore such heavy burden of their sins. Instead of this, their burdens
   were needlessly increased. True, as wrapped in mourner's garb the leper
   passed by, his cry Unclean!' was to incite others to pray for him - but
   also to avoid him. [2347] No one was even to salute him; his bed was to
   be low, inclining towards the ground. [2348] If he even put his head
   into a place, it became unclean. No less a distance than four cubits
   (six feet) must be kept from a leper; or, if the wind came from that
   direction, a hundred were scarcely sufficient. Rabbi Meir would not eat
   an egg purchased in a street where there was a leper. Another Rabbi
   boasted, that he always threw stones at them to keep them far off,
   while others hid themselves or ran away. [2349] [2350] To such extent
   did Rabbinism carry its inhuman logic in considering the leper as a
   mourner, that it even forbade him to wash his face. [2351]

   We can now in some measure appreciate the contrast between Jesus and
   His contemporaries in His bearing towards the leper. Or, conversely, we
   can judge by the healing of this leper of the impression which the
   Saviour had made upon the people. He would have fled from a Rabbi; he
   came in lowliest attitude of entreaty to Jesus. Criticism need not so
   anxiously seek for an explanation of his approach. There was no Old
   Testament precedent for it: not in the case of Moses, nor even in that
   of Elisha, and there was no Jewish expectancy of it. But to have heard
   Him teach, to have seen or known Him as healing all manner of disease,
   must have carried to the heart the conviction of His absolute power.
   And so one can understand this lowly reverence of approach, this cry
   which has so often since been wrung from those who have despaired of
   all other help: If Thou wilt, Thou canst make me clean.' It is not a
   prayer, but the ground-tone of all prayer - faith in His Power, and
   absolute committal to Him of our helpless, hopeless need. And Jesus,
   touched with compassion, willed it. It almost seems, as if it were in
   the very exuberance of power that Jesus, acting in so direct
   contravention of Jewish usage, touched the leper. It was fitting that
   Elisha should disappoint Naaman's expectancy, that the prophet would
   heal his leprosy by the touch of his hand. It was even more fitting
   that Jesus should surprise the Jewish leper by touching, ere by His
   Word He cleansed him. And so, experience ever finds that in Christ the
   real is far beyond the ideal. We can understand, how. from his
   standpoint, Strauss should have found it impossible to understand the
   healing of leprosy by the touch and Word of Jesus. Its explanation lies
   in the fact, that He was the God-Man. And yet, as our inner tending
   after God and the voice of conscience indicate that man is capable of
   adoption into God's family, so the marked power which in disease mind
   has over body points to a higher capability in Man Perfect, the Ideal
   Man, the God-Man, of vanquishing disease by His Will.

   It is not quite so easy at first sight to understand, why Christ should
   with such intense earnestness, almost vehemence, [2352] have sent the
   healed man away - as the term bears, cast him out.' [2353] Certainly
   not (as Volkmar - fantastically in error on this, as on so many other
   points - imagines) because He disapproved of his worship. Rather do we
   once more gather, how the God-Man shrank from the fame connected with
   miracles - specially with such an one - which as we have seen, were
   rather of inward and outward necessity than of choice in His Mission.
   Not so - followed by a curious crowd, or thronged by eager multitudes
   of sight-seers, or aspirants for temporal benefits - was the Kingdom of
   Heaven to be preached and advanced. It would have been the way of a
   Jewish Messiah, and have led up to His royal proclamation by the
   populace. But as we study the character of the Christ, no contrast
   seems more glaring - let us add, more painful - than that of such a
   scene. And so we read that, when, notwithstanding the Saviour's charge
   to the healed leper to keep silence, it was nevertheless - nay, as
   might perhaps have been expected - all the more made known by him - as,
   indeed, in some measure it could scarcely have remained entirely
   unknown, He could no more, as before, enter the cities, but remained
   without in desert places, whither they came to Him from every quarter.
   And in that withdrawal He spoke, and healed, and prayed.'

   Yet another motive of Christ's conduct may be suggested. His injunction
   of silence was combined with that of presenting himself to the priest
   and conforming to the ritual requirements of the Mosaic Law in such
   cases. [2354] It is scarcely necessary to refute the notion, that in
   this Christ was prompted either by the desire to see the healed man
   restored to the society of his fellows, or by the wish to have some
   officially recognised miracle, to which He might afterwards appeal. Not
   to speak of the un-Christlikeness of such a wish or purpose, as a
   matter of fact, He did not appeal to it, and the healed leper wholly
   disappears from the Gospel-narrative. And yet his conforming to the
   Mosaic Ritual was to be a testimony unto them.' The Lord, certainly,
   did not wish to have the Law of Moses broken - and broken not
   superseded, it would have been, if its provisions had been infringed
   before His Death, Ascension, and the Coming of the Holy Ghost had
   brought their fulfilment.

   But there is something else here. The course of this history shows,
   that the open rupture between Jesus and the Jewish authorities, which
   had commenced at the Unknown Feast at Jerusalem, was to lead to
   practical sequences. On the part of the Jewish authorities, it led to
   measures of active hostility. The Synagogues of Galilee are no longer
   the quiet scenes of His teaching and miracles; His Word and deeds no
   longer pass unchallenged. It had never occurred to these Galileans, as
   they implicitly surrendered themselves to the power of His words, to
   question their orthodoxy. But now, immediately after this occurrence,
   we find Him accused of blasphemy. [2355] They had not thought it breach
   of God's Law when, on that Sabbath, He had healed in the Synagogue of
   Capernaum and in the home of Peter; but after this it became sinful to
   extend like mercy on the Sabbath to him whose hand was withered. [2356]
   They had never thought of questioning the condescension of his
   intercourse with the poor and needy; but now they sought to sap the
   commencing allegiance of His disciples by charging Him with undue
   intercourse with publicans and sinners, [2357] and by inciting against
   Him even the prejudices and doubts of the half-enlightened followers of
   His own Forerunner. [2358] All these new incidents are due to one and
   the same cause; the presence and hostile watchfulness of the Scribes
   and Pharisees, who now for the first time appear on the scene of His
   ministry. It is too much then to infer, that, immediately after that
   Feast at Jerusalem, the Jewish authorities sent their familiars into
   Galilee after Jesus, and that it was to the presence and influence of
   this informal deputation that the opposition to Christ, which now
   increasingly appeared, was due? If so, then we see not only an
   additional motive for Christ's injunction of silence on those whom He
   had healed, and for His own withdrawal from the cities and their
   throng, but we can understand how, as He afterwards answered those,
   whom John had sent to lay before Christ his doubts, by pointing to His
   works, so He replied to the sending forth of the Scribes of Jerusalem
   to watch, oppose, and arrest Him, by sending to Jerusalem as His
   embassy the healed leper, to submit to all the requirements of the Law.
   It was His testimony unto them - His, Who was meek and lowly in heart;
   and it was in deepest accord with what He had done, and was doing.
   Assuredly, He Who brake not the bruised reed, did not cry nor lift up
   His Voice in the streets, but brought forth judgment unto truth. And in
   Him shall the nations trust!
     __________________________________________________________________

   [2299] So both in St. Mark (i. 35-39) and in St. Luke (iv. 42-44), and
   in substantial accord even in St. Matthew (iv. 23).

   [2300] St. Mark vii. 34.

   [2301] St. Luke x. 17-20.

   [2302] So also St. Paul, 1 Cor. xii. 31:xiii. 1.

   [2303] St. Mark i. 35.

   [2304] pro.

   [2305] The circumstances will be referred to in the sequel.

   [2306] The expression in St. Luke iv. 43 shows, that the coming forth'
   (St. Mark i. 38) cannot be limited to His leaving Capernaum.

   [2307] The following are, briefly, some of the considerations which
   determine the chronological order here adopted: (1.) This event could
   not have taken place after the Sermon on the Mount, since then the
   twelve Apostles were already called, nor yet after the call of St.
   Matthew. (2) From the similes employed (about the lilies of the field,
   &c.), the Sermon on the Mount seems to have taken place in spring; this
   event in early autumn. On the other hand, the order in St. Mark exactly
   fits in, and also in the main agrees, with that in St. Luke, while,
   lastly, it exhibits the growing persecutions from Jerusalem, of which
   we have here the first traces.

   [2308] This is ingeniously indicated in Professor Delitzsch's Entsteh.
   d. Kanon. Evang., although, in my view, the theory cannot be carried
   out in the full details attempted by the Professor. But such a general
   conception of the Gospel by St. Matthew is not only reasonable in
   itself, but explains his peculiar arrangement of events.

   [2309] On the date of this feast comp. Appendix XV.

   [2310] From this women were excepted, Sot. iii. 8.

   [2311] Lev. xiii. 45.

   [2312] They were not allowed to hold intercourse with persons under
   other defilement than leprosy, Pes. 67 a.

   [2313] These were considered as walled since the time of Joshua, Kel.
   i. 7, and their sanctity equal to that of the camp of Israel, and
   greater than that of unwalled towns.

   [2314] Neg. iii. 1; vii. 1; xi. 1; xii 1.

   [2315] Neg. iii. 2.

   [2316] The following parts are declared in the Mishnah as untainted by
   leprosy: within the eye, ear, nose, and mouth; the folds of the skin,
   especially those of the neck; under the female breast; the armpit; the
   sole of the foot, the nails, the head, and the beard (Neg. vi. 8).

   [2317] Das Mos. Recht, vol. iv. p. 195.

   [2318] Michaelis views the whole question chiefly from the standpoint
   of sanitary police.

   [2319] It is, though I think hesitatingly, propounded by Strauss (vol.
   ii. pp. 56, 57). He has been satisfactorily answered by Volkmar
   (Marcus, p. 110).

   [2320] u. s. pp. 53, 54.

   [2321] Jesu von Naz. ii. p. 174. This is among the weakest portions of
   the book. Keim must have strongly felt the telling marks of the
   authenticity of this narrative,' when he was driven to an explanation
   which makes Jesus present Himself as a Scribe.'

   [2322] Ant. iii. 11. 3.

   [2323] Sanh. 98 b.

   [2324] See the passage in full in the Appendix on Messianic Prophecies.

   [2325] These are detailed in Neg. i. 1-4; ii. 1; iii. 3-6; vii. 1; ix.
   2, 3.

   [2326] Neg. iii. 1.

   [2327] Kel. i. 7.

   [2328] Pes. 67.

   [2329] Neg. xiii 12.

   [2330] Undoubtedly the deepest and most philosophical treatment of this
   subject is that in the now somewhat rare, and unfortunately
   uncompleted, work of Molitor, Philosophie d. Gesch. (see vol. iii. pp.
   126 &c., and 253 &c). The author is, however, perhaps too much imbued
   with the views of the Kabbalah.

   [2331] According to Tos. Neg. vi. no case of leprosy of houses had ever
   occurred, but was only mentioned in Scripture, in order to give
   occasion to legal studies, so as to procure a Divine reward.

   [2332] I have here followed, or rather summarised, Maimonides. It was,
   of course, impossible to give even the briefest details.

   [2333] Kel. i. 1-4.

   [2334] Neg. xiii. 11.

   [2335] Shabb. 55 a.

   [2336] Nedar. 41 a.

   [2337] Ber. 33 a.

   [2338] The story, of which this saying is the moral, is that of the
   crushing of a serpent by the great miracle-monger Chanina ben Dosa,
   without his being hurt. But I cannot help feeling that a double
   entendre is here intended - on the one hand, that even a serpent could
   not hurt one like Chanina, and, on the other, the wider bearing on the
   real cause of death: not our original state, but our actual sin.

   [2339] Ber. 5 b.

   [2340] The Midrash enumerates four as in that category: the poor, the
   blind, the childless, and the leprous.

   [2341] Ber. 5 a.

   [2342] Ber. 5 b.

   [2343] Bemidb. R. 13.

   [2344] From Zech. xiv. 12 it was inferred, that this leprosy would
   smite the Gentiles even in the Messianic age (Tanchuma, Tazria, end).

   [2345] Tanch. on Hammetsora 4; ed. Lemberg ii. p. 24 a.

   [2346] u. s., 2, p.23 a; Arach. 15 b; and in many passages.

   [2347] Moed K.

   [2348] u.s. 15 a.

   [2349] Vayyik. R. 16. [Leprosy is there brought into connection with
   calumny].

   [2350] And yet Jewish symbolism saw in the sufferings of Israel and the
   destruction of the Temple the real fulfilment of the punishment of
   leprosy with its attendant ordinances, while it also traced in the
   healing of that disease and the provisions for declaring the leper
   clean, a close analogy to what would happen in Israel's restoration
   (Vayyikra R. 15, 17; Yalkut i. par. 551, 563).

   [2351] Moed. K 15 a.

   [2352] On this term see the first note in this chapter.

   [2353] This, however, as Godet has shown (Comm. on St. Luke, German
   transl., p. 137), does not imply that the event took place either in a
   house or in a town, as most commentators suppose. It is strange that
   the Speaker's Commentary,' following Weiss, should have located the
   incident in a Synagogue. It could not possibly have occurred there,
   unless all Jewish ordinances and customs had been reversed.

   [2354] The Rabbinic ordinances as to the ritual in such cases are in
   Neg. xiv. See The Temple and its Services' pp. 315-317. Special
   attention was to be given, that the water with which the purified leper
   was sprinkled was from a pure, flowing spring (six different
   collections of water, suited to different kinds of impurity, being
   described in Miqv. i. 1-8). From Parah viii. 10 we gather, that among
   other rivers even the Jordan was not deemed sufficiently pure, because
   in its course other streams, which were not lawful for such
   purification, had mingled with it.

   [2355] St. Luke v. 21.

   [2356] St. Luke vi. 7.

   [2357] St. Luke v. 30.

   [2358] St. Luke v. 33.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XVI.
THE RETURN TO CAPERNAUM - CONCERNING THE FORGIVENESS OF SINS - THE HEALING OF
THE PARALYSED

   (St. Matt. ix. 1-8; St. Mark ii. 1-12; St. Luke v. 17-26.)

   It is a remarkable instance of the reserve of the Gospel-narratives,
   that of the second journey of Jesus in Galilee no other special event
   is recorded than the healing of the leper. And it seems also to
   indicate, that this one miracle had been so selected for a special
   purpose. But if, as we have suggested, after the Unknown Feast,' the
   activity of Jesus assumed a new and what, for want of a better name,
   may be called an anti-Judaic character, we can perceive the reason of
   it. The healing of leprosy was recorded as typical. With this agrees
   also what immediately follows. For, as Rabbinism stood confessedly
   powerless in face of the living death of leprosy, so it had no word of
   forgiveness to speak to the conscience burdened with sin, nor yet word
   of welcome to the sinner. But this was the inmost meaning of the two
   events which the Gospel-history places next to the healing of the
   leper: the forgiveness of sins in the case of the paralytic, and the
   welcome to the chief of sinners in the call of Levi-Matthew.

   We are still mainly following the lead of St. Mark, [2359] alike as
   regards the succession of events and their details. And here it is
   noteworthy, how the account in St. Mark confirms that by St. John
   [2360] of what had occurred at the Unknown Feast. Not that either
   Evangelist could have derived it from the other. But if we establish
   the trustworthiness of the narrative in St. John v., which is
   unconfirmed by any of the Synoptists, we strengthen not only the
   evidence in favour of the Fourth Gospel generally, but that in one of
   its points of chief difficulty, since such advanced teaching on the
   part of Jesus, and such developed hostility from the Jewish
   authorities, might scarcely have been looked for at so early a stage.
   But when we compare the language of St. Mark with the narrative in the
   fifth chapter of St. John's Gospel, at least four points of contact
   prominently appear. For, first, the unspoken charge of the Scribes,
   [2361] that in forgiving sins Jesus blasphemed by making Himself equal
   with God, has its exact counterpart in the similar charge against Him
   in St. John v. 18, which kindled in them the wish to kill Jesus.
   Secondly, as in that case the final reply of Jesus pointed to the
   authority' (xousa) which the Father had given Him for Divine
   administration on earth, [2362] so the healing of the paralytic was to
   show the Scribes that He had authority' (xousa) [2363] for the
   dispensation upon earth of the forgiveness of sins, which the Jews
   rightly regarded as the Divine prerogative. Thirdly, the words which
   Jesus spake to the paralytic: Rise, take up thy bed, and walk,' [2364]
   are to the very letter the same [2365] which are recorded [2366] as
   used by Him when He healed the impotent man at the Pool of Bethesda.
   Lastly, alike in the words which Jesus addressed to the Scribes at the
   healing of the paralytic, and in those at the Unknown Feast, He made
   final appeal to His works as evidential of His being sent by, and
   having received of, the Father the authority' to which He laid claim.
   [2367] It would be utterly irrational to regard these as coincidences,
   and not references. And their evidential force becomes the stronger, as
   we remember the entire absence of design on the part of St. Mark.
   [2368] But this correspondence not only supports the trustworthiness of
   the two independent narratives in St. Mark and in St. John, but also
   confirms alike that historical order in which we have arranged the
   events, and the suggestion that, after the encounter at the Unknown
   Feast, the authorities of Jerusalem had sent representatives to watch,
   oppose, and, if possible, entrap Jesus.

   In another manner, also, the succession of events, as we have traced
   it, seems confirmed by the account of the healing of the paralytic. The
   second journey of Jesus through Galilee had commenced in autumn; the
   return to Capernaum was after days,' which, in common Jewish
   phraseology, [2369] meant a considerable interval. As we reckon, it was
   winter, which would equally account for Christ's return to Capernaum,
   and for His teaching in the house. For, no sooner was it heard that He
   was in the house,' or, as some have rendered it, that He was at home,'
   than so many flocked to the dwelling of Peter, which at that period may
   have been the house' or temporary home' of the Saviour, as to fill its
   limited space to over flowing, and even to crowd out to the door and
   beyond it. The general impression on our minds is, that this audience
   was rather in a state of indecision than of sympathy with Jesus. It
   included Pharisees and doctors of the Law,' who had come on purpose
   from the towns of Galilee, from Judæa, and from Jerusalem. These
   occupied the uppermost rooms,' sitting, no doubt, near to Jesus. Their
   influence must have been felt by the people. Although irresistibly
   attracted by Jesus, an element of curiosity, if not of doubt, would
   mingle with their feelings, as they looked at their leaders, to whom
   long habit attached the most superstitious veneration. If one might so
   say, it was like the gathering of Israel on Mount Carmel, to witness
   the issue as between Elijah and the priests of Baal.

   Although in no wise necessary to the understanding of the event, it is
   helpful to try and realise the scene. We can picture to ourselves the
   Saviour speaking the Word' to that eager, interested crowd, which would
   soon become forgetful even of the presence of the watchful Scribes.'
   Though we know a good deal of the structure of Jewish houses, [2370] we
   feel it difficult to be sure of the exact place which the Saviour
   occupied on this occasion. Meetings for religious study and discussion
   were certainly held in the Aliyah or upper chamber. [2371] But, on many
   grounds, such a locale seems utterly unsuited to the requirements of
   the narrative. [2372] Similar objections attach to the idea, that it
   was the front room of one of those low houses occupied by the poor.
   [2373] Nor is there any reason for supposing that the house occupied by
   Peter was one of those low buildings, which formed the dwellings of the
   very poor. It must, at any rate, have contained, besides a large family
   room, accommodation for Peter and his wife, for Peter's mother-in-law,
   and for Jesus as the honoured guest. The Mishnah calls a small house
   one that is 9 feet long by 12 broad, and a large house one that is 12
   feet long by 15 broad, and adds that a dining-hall is 15 feet square,
   the height being always computed at half the length and breadth. [2374]
   But these notices seem rather to apply to a single room. They are part
   of a legal discussion, in which reference is made to a building which
   might be erected by a man for his son on his marriage, or as a dwelling
   for his widowed daughter. Another source of information is derived from
   what we know of the price and rental of houses. We read [2375] of a
   house as costing ten (of course, gold) dinars, which would make the
   price 250 silver dinars, or between 71. and 81. of our money. This
   must, however, have been a small house,' since the rental of such is
   stated to have been from 7s. to 28s. a year, [2376] while that of a
   large house is computed at about 91. a year, [2377] and that of a
   courtyard at about 14s. a year. [2378]

   All this is so far of present interest as it will help to show, that
   the house of Peter could not have been a small one.' We regard it as
   one of the better dwellings of the middle classes. In that case all the
   circumstances fully accord with the narrative in the Gospels. Jesus is
   speaking the Word, standing in the covered gallery that ran round the
   courtyard of such houses, and opened into the various apartments.
   Perhaps He was standing within the entrance of the guest-chamber, while
   the Scribes were sitting within that apartment, or beside Him in the
   gallery. The court before Him is thronged, out into the street. All are
   absorbedly listening to the Master, when of a sudden those appear who
   are bearing a paralytic on his pallet. It had of late become too common
   a scene to see the sick thus carried to Jesus to attract special
   attention. And yet one can scarcely conceive that, if the crowd had
   merely filled an apartment and gathered around its door, it would not
   have made way for the sick, or that somehow the bearers could not have
   come within sight, or been able to attract the attention of Christ. But
   with a courtyard crowded out into the street, all this would be, of
   course, out of the question. In such circumstances, what was to be
   done? Access to Jesus was simply impossible. Shall they wait till the
   multitude disperses, or for another and more convenient season? Only
   those would have acted thus who have never felt the preciousness of an
   opportunity, because they have never known what real need is. Inmost in
   the hearts of those who bore the paralysed was the belief, that Jesus
   could, and that he would, heal. They must have heard it from others;
   they must have witnessed it themselves in other instances. And inmost
   in the heart of the paralytic was, as we infer from the first words of
   Jesus to him, not only the same conviction, but with it weighed a
   terrible fear, born of Jewish belief, lest his sins might hinder his
   healing. And this would make him doubly anxious not to lose the present
   opportunity.

   And so their resolve was quickly taken. If they cannot approach Jesus
   with their burden, they can let it down from above at His feet. Outside
   the house, as well as inside, a stair led up to the roof. They may have
   ascended it in this wise, or else reached it by what the Rabbis called
   the road of the roofs,' [2379] passing from roof to roof, if the house
   adjoined others in the same street. The roof itself, which had hard
   beaten earth or rubble underneath it, was paved with brick, stone, or
   any other hard substance, and surrounded by a balustrade which,
   according to Jewish Law, was at least three feet high. It is scarcely
   possible to imagine, that the bearers of the paralytic would have
   attempted to dig through this into a room below, not to speak of the
   interruption and inconvenience caused to those below by such an
   operation. But no such objection attaches if we regard it, not as the
   main roof of the house, but as that of the covered gallery under which
   we are supposing the Lord to have stood. This could, of course, have
   been readily reached from above. In such case it would have been
   comparatively easy to unroof' the covering of tiles,' and then, having
   dug out' an opening through the lighter framework which supported the
   tiles, to let down their burden into the midst before Jesus.' All this,
   as done by four strong men, would be but the work of a few minutes. But
   we can imagine the arresting of the discourse of Jesus, and the
   breathless surprise of the crowd as this opening through the tiles
   appeared, and slowly a pallet was let down before them. Busy hands
   would help to steady it, and bring it safe to the ground. And on that
   pallet lay one paralysed - his fevered face and glistening eyes
   upturned to Jesus.

   It must have been a marvellous sight, even at a time and in
   circumstances when the marvellous might be said to have become of
   every-day occurrence. This energy and determination of faith exceeded
   aught that had been witnessed before. Jesus saw it, and He spake. For,
   as yet, the blanched lips of the sufferer had not parted to utter his
   petition. He believed, indeed, in the power of Jesus to heal, with all
   the certitude that issued, not only in the determination to be laid at
   His feet, but at whatever trouble and in any circumstances, however
   novel or strange. It needed, indeed, faith to overcome all the
   hindrances in the present instance; and still more faith to be so
   absorbed and forgetful of all around, as to be let down from the roof
   through the broken tiling into the midst of such an assembly. And this
   open outburst of faith shone out the more brightly, from its contrast
   with the covered darkness and clouds of unbelief within the breast of
   those Scribes, who had come to watch and ensnare Jesus.

   As yet no one had spoken, for the silence of expectancy had fallen on
   them all. Could He, and, if He could, would He help - and what would He
   do? But He, Who perceived man's unspoken thoughts, knew that there was
   not only faith, but also fear, in the heart of that man. Hence the
   first words which the Saviour spake to him were: Be of good cheer.'
   [2380] He had, indeed, got beyond the coarse Judaic standpoint, from
   which suffering seemed an expiation of sin. It was argued by the
   Rabbis, that, if the loss of an eye or a tooth liberated a slave from
   bondage, much more would the sufferings of the whole body free the soul
   from guilt; and, again, that Scripture itself indicated this by the use
   of the word covenant,' [2381] alike in connection with the salt which
   rendered the sacrifices meet for the altar, [2382] and sufferings,
   [2383] which did the like for the soul by cleansing away sin. [2384] We
   can readily believe, as the recorded experience of the Rabbis shows,
   [2385] that such sayings brought neither relief to the body, nor
   comfort to the soul of real sufferers. But this other Jewish idea was
   even more deeply rooted, had more of underlying truth, and would,
   especially in presence of the felt holiness of Jesus, have a deep
   influence on the soul, that recovery would not be granted to the sick
   unless his sins had first been forgiven him. [2386] It was this
   deepest, though, perhaps, as yet only partially conscious, want of the
   sufferer before Him, which Jesus met when, in words of tenderest
   kindness, He spoke forgiveness to his soul, and that not as something
   to come, but as an act already past: Child, thy sins have been
   forgiven.' [2387] We should almost say, that He needed first to speak
   these words, before He gave healing: needed, in the psychological order
   of things; needed, also, if the inward sickness was to be healed, and
   because the inward stroke, or paralysis, in the consciousness of guilt,
   must be removed, before the outward could be taken away.

   In another sense, also, there was a higher need be' for the word which
   brought forgiveness, before that which gave healing. Although it is not
   for a moment to be supposed, that, in what Jesus did, He had primary
   intention in regard to the Scribes, yet here also, as in all Divine
   acts, the undesigned adaptation and the undesigned sequences are as
   fitting as what we call the designed. For, with God there is neither
   past nor future; neither immediate nor mediate; but all is one, the
   eternally and God-pervaded Present. Let us recall, that Jesus was in
   the presence of those in whom the Scribes would feign have wrought
   disbelief, not of His power to cure disease - which was patent to all -
   but in His Person and authority; that, perhaps, such doubts had already
   been excited. And here it deserves special notice, that, by first
   speaking forgiveness, Christ not only presented the deeper moral aspect
   of His miracles, as against their ascription to magic or Satanic
   agency, but also established that very claim, as regarded His Person
   and authority, which it was sought to invalidate. In this forgiveness
   of sins He presented His Person and authority as Divine, and He proved
   it such by the miracle of healing which immediately followed. Had the
   two been inverted, there would have been evidence, indeed, of His
   power, but not of His Divine Personality, nor of His having authority
   to forgive sins; and this, not the doing of miracles, was the object of
   His Teaching and Mission, of which the miracles were only secondary
   evidence.

   Thus the inward reasoning of the Scribes, [2388] which was open and
   known to Him Who readeth all thoughts, [2389] issued in quite the
   opposite of what they could have expected. Most unwarranted, indeed,
   was the feeling of contempt which we trace in their unspoken words,
   whether we read them: Why doth this one thus speak blasphemies?' or,
   according to a more correct transcript of them: Why doth this one speak
   thus? He blasphemeth!' Yet from their point of view they were right,
   for God alone can forgive sins; nor has that power ever been given or
   delegated to man. But was He a mere man, like even the most honoured of
   God's servants? Man, indeed; but the Son of Man' [2390] in the emphatic
   and well-understood sense of being the Representative Man, who was to
   bring a new life to humanity; the Second Adam, the Lord from Heaven. It
   seemed easy to say: Thy sins have been forgiven.' But to Him, Who had
   authority' to do so on earth, it was neither more easy nor more
   difficult than to say: Rise, take up thy bed, and walk.' Yet this
   latter, assuredly, proved the former, and gave it in the sight of all
   men unquestioned reality. And so it was the thoughts of these Scribes,
   which, as applied to Christ, were evil' - since they imputed to Him
   blasphemy - that gave occasion for offering real evidence of what they
   would have impugned and denied. In no other manner could the object
   alike of miracles and of this special miracle have been so attained as
   by the evil thoughts' of these Scribes, when, miraculously brought to
   light, they spoke out the inmost possible doubt, and pointed to the
   highest of all questions concerning the Christ. And so it was once more
   the wrath of man which praised Him!

   And the remainder of wrath did he restrain.' As the healed man slowly
   rose, and, still silent, rolled up his pallet, a way was made for him
   between this multitude which followed him with wondering eyes. Then, as
   first mingled wonderment and fear fell on Israel on Mount Carmel, when
   the fire had leaped from heaven, devoured the sacrifice, licked up the
   water in the trench, and even consumed the stones of the altar, and
   then all fell prostrate, and the shout rose to heaven: Jehovah, He is
   the Elohim!' so now, in view of this manifestation of the Divine
   Presence among them. The amazement of fear fell on them in this
   Presence, and they glorified God, and they said: We have never seen it
   on this wise!'
     __________________________________________________________________

   [2359] The same order is followed by St. Luke. From the connection
   between St. Mark and St. Peter, we should naturally look for the
   fullest account of that early Capernaum-Ministry in the Second Gospel.

   [2360] St. John v.

   [2361] St. Mark ii. 6, 7.

   [2362] St. John v. 27.

   [2363] The A. V. mars the meaning by rendering it: power.'

   [2364] St. Mark ii. 9.

   [2365] So according to the best readings.

   [2366] In St. John v. 8.

   [2367] St. John v. 36; comp. St. Mark ii. 10.

   [2368] It is, of course, not pretended by negative critics that the
   Fourth Gospel borrowed from St. Mark. On the contrary, the supposed
   differences in form and spirit between the Synoptists and the Fourth
   Gospel form one of the main arguments against the authenticity of the
   latter. In regard to the 5th chap. of St. John, Dr. Abbott writes (Art.
   Gospels,' Encycl. Brit. p. 833 b): That part of the discourse in which
   Christ describes Himself in the presence of the multitude as having
   received all power to judge and to quicken the dead, does not resemble
   anything in the Synoptic narrative' - except St. Matt. xi. 27; St. Luke
   x. 22, and that was uttered privately to the disciples.' To complete
   the irony of criticism, Dr. Abbott contrasts the faith of the
   Synoptists,' such as that half-physical thrill of trust in the presence
   of Jesus. Which enables the limbs of a paralysed man to make the due
   physical response to the emotional shock consequent on the word
   "Arise," so that in the strength of that shock the paralytic is enabled
   to shake off the disease of many years,' with faith such as the Fourth
   Gospel presents it.

   [2369] {hebrew}. See Wetstein in loc.

   [2370] Sketches of Jewish life,' pp. 93-96.

   [2371] Shabb. i. 4; Jer. Sanh. 21 b; Jer. Pes. 30 b, and often.

   [2372] Such a crowd could scarcely have assembled there - and where
   were those about and beyond the door?

   [2373] This is the suggestion of Dr. Thomson (The Land and the Book,'
   pp. 358, 359). But even he sees difficulties in it. Besides, was Christ
   inside the small room of such a house, and if so, how did the multitude
   see and hear Him? Nor can I see any reason for representing Peter as so
   poor. Professor Delitzsch's conception of the scene (in his Elin Tag in
   Capern,') seems to me, so far as I follow it, though exceedingly
   beautiful, too imaginative.

   [2374] Baba B. vi. 4.

   [2375] In Jer. Keth. iv. 14, p. 29 b.

   [2376] Tos. B. Mets. c. iv. 2.

   [2377] u. s., c. viii. 31, ed, Z.

   [2378] Baba Mets. v. 2.

   [2379] Jos, Ant. xiii. 5. 3; Bab. Mez. 88 a.

   [2380] St. Matt. ix. 2.

   [2381] In our A. V. it is erroneously Deut. xxix. 1.

   [2382] Lev. ii. 13.

   [2383] Deut. xxviii. 69 b.

   [2384] Ber. 5 a.

   [2385] Ber. 5 b.

   [2386] Nedar. 41 a.

   [2387] So according to the greater number of MSS., which have the verb
   in the perfect tense.

   [2388] The expression, reasoning in their hearts,' corresponds exactly
   to the Rabbinic {hebrew}, Ber. 22 a. The word {hebrew} is frequently
   used in contradistinction to speaking.

   [2389] In Sanh. 93 b this reading of the thoughts is regarded as the
   fulfilment of Is. xi. 3, and as one of the marks of the Messiah, which
   Bar Kokhabh not possessing was killed.

   [2390] That the expression Son of Man' ({hebrew}) was well understood
   as referring to the Messiah, appears from the following remarkable
   anti-Christian passage (Jer. Taan 65 b, at the bottom): If a man shall
   say to thee, I am God, he lies; if he says, I am the Son of Man, his
   end will be to repent it; if he says, I go up into heaven (to this
   applies Numb. xxiii. 19), hath he said and shall he not do it?' [or,
   hath he spoken, and shall he make it good?] Indeed, the whole passage,
   as will be seen, is an attempt to adapt. Numb. xxiii. 19 to the
   Christian controversy.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XVII.
THE CALL OF MATTHEW - THE SAVIOUR'S WELCOME TO SINNERS - RABBINIC THEOLOGY AS
REGARDS THE DOCTRINE OF FORGIVENESS IN CONTRAST TO THE GOSPEL OF CHRIST - THE
CALL OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES.

   (St. Matt. ix. 9-13; St. Mark ii. 13-17; St. Luke v. 27-32; St. Matt.
   x. 2-4;St. Mark iii. 13-19; St. Luke vi. 12-19.)

   In two things chiefly does the fundamental difference appear between
   Christianity and all other religious systems, notably Rabbinism. And in
   these two things, therefore, lies the main characteristic of Christ's
   work; or, taking a wider view, the fundamental idea of all religions.
   Subjectively, they concern sin and the sinner; or, to put it
   objectively, the forgiveness of sin and the welcome to the sinner. But
   Rabbinism, and every other system down to modern humanitarianism - if
   it rises so high in its idea of God as to reach that of sin, which is
   its shadow - can only generally point to God for the forgiveness of
   sin. What here is merely an abstraction, has become a concrete reality
   in Christ. He speaks forgiveness on earth, because He is its
   embodiment. As regards the second idea, that of the sinner, all other
   systems know of no welcome to him till, by some means (inward or
   outward), he have ceased to be a sinner and become a penitent. They
   would first make him a penitent, and then bid him welcome to God;
   Christ first welcomes him to God, and so makes him a penitent. The one
   demands, the other imparts life. And so Christ is the Physician Whom
   they that are in health need not, but they that are sick. And so Christ
   came not to call the righteous but sinners - not to repentance, as our
   common text erroneously puts it in St. Matthew ix. 13, and St. Mark ii.
   17, [2391] but to Himself, to the Kingdom; and this is the beginning of
   repentance.

   Thus it is that Jesus, when His teaching becomes distinctive from that
   of Judaism, puts these two points in the foreground: the one at the
   cure of the paralytic, the other in the call of Levi-Matthew. And this,
   also, further explains His miracles of healing as for the higher
   presentation of Himself as the Great Physician, while it gives some
   insight into the nexus of these two events, and explains their
   chronological succession. [2392] It was fitting that at the very
   outset, when Rabbinism followed and challenged Jesus with hostile
   intent, these two spiritual facts should be brought out, and that, not
   in a controversial, but in a positive and practical manner. For, as
   these two questions of sin and of the possible relation of the sinner
   to God are the great burden of the soul in its upward striving after
   God, so the answer to them forms the substance of all religions.
   Indeed, all the cumbrous observances of Rabbinism - its whole law -
   were only an attempted answer to the question: How can a man be just
   with God?

   But, as Rabbinism stood self-confessedly silent and powerless as
   regarded the forgiveness of sins, so it had emphatically no word of
   welcome or help for the sinner. The very term Pharisee,' or separated
   one,' implied the exclusion of sinners. With this the whole character
   of Pharisaism accorded; perhaps, we should have said, that of
   Rabbinism, since the Sadducean would here agree with the Pharisaic
   Rabbi. The contempt and avoidance of the unlearned, which was so
   characteristic of the system, arose not from mere pride of knowledge,
   but from the thought that, as the Law' was the glory and privilege of
   Israel - indeed, the object for which the world was created and
   preserved - ignorance of it was culpable. Thus, the unlearned
   blasphemed his Creator, and missed or perverted his own destiny. It was
   a principle, that the ignorant cannot be pious.' On the principles of
   Rabbinism, there was logic in all this, and reason also, though sadly
   perverted. The yoke of the Kingdom of God' was the high destiny of
   every true Israelite. Only, to them it lay in external, not internal
   conformity to the Law of God: in meat and drink,' not in righteousness,
   peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost.' True, they also perceived, that sins
   of thought' and purpose, though uncommitted, were more grievous than
   even sins of outward deed;' [2393] but only in this sense, that each
   outward sin was traceable to inward dereliction or denial of the Law -
   no man sinneth, unless the spirit of error has first entered into him.'
   [2394] On this ground the punishment of infidelity or apostasy in the
   next world was endless, while that of actual transgressions was limited
   in duration. [2395] [2396]

   As righteousness came by the Law,' so also return to it on the part of
   the sinner. Hence, although Rabbinism had no welcome to the sinner, it
   was unceasing in its call to repentance and in extolling its merits.
   All the prophets had prophesied only of repentance. [2397] The last
   pages of the Tractate on the Day of Atonement are full of praises of
   repentance. It not only averted punishment and prolonged life, but
   brought good, even the final redemption to Israel and the world at
   large. It surpassed the observance of all the commandments, and was as
   meritorious as if one had restored the Temple and Altar, and offered
   all sacrifices. [2398] One hour of penitence and good works outweighed
   the whole world to come. These are only a few of the extravagant
   statements by which Rabbinism extolled repentance. But, when more
   closely examined, we find that this repentance, as preceding the free
   welcome of invitation to the sinner, was only another form of
   work-righteousness. This is, at any rate, one meaning [2399] of the
   saying which conjoined the Law and repentance, and represented them as
   preceding the Creation. [2400] Another would seem derived from a kind
   of Manichaean view of sin. According to it, God Himself was really the
   author of the Yetser haRa, or evil impulse [2401] (the law in our
   members'), for which, indeed, there was an absolute necessity, if the
   world was to continue. [2402] [2403] Hence, the penitent' was really
   the great one,' since his strong nature had more in it of the evil
   impulse,' and the conquest of it by the penitent was really of greater
   merit than abstinence from sin. [2404] Thus it came, that the true
   penitent really occupied a higher place, stood where the perfectly
   righteous could not stand.' [2405] There is then both work and merit in
   penitence; and we can understand, how the gate of penitence is open,
   even when that of prayer is shut,' [2406] and that these two sentences
   are not only consistent, but almost cover each other - that the
   Messianic deliverance would come, if all Israel did righteousness,
   [2407] and, again, if all Israel repented for only one day; [2408] or,
   to put it otherwise - if Israel were all saints, or all sinners. [2409]

   We have already touched the point where, as regards repentance, as
   formerly in regard to forgiveness, the teaching of Christ is in
   absolute and fundamental contrariety to that of the Rabbis. According
   to Jesus Christ, when we have done all, we are to feel that we are but
   unprofitable servants. [2410] According to the Rabbis, as St. Paul puts
   it, righteousness cometh by the Law;' and, when it is lost, the Law
   alone can restore life; [2411] while, according to Christian teaching,
   it only bringeth death. Thus there was, at the very foundation of
   religious life, absolute contrariety between Jesus and His
   contemporaries. Whence, if not from heaven, came a doctrine so novel as
   that which Jesus made the basis of His Kingdom?

   In one respect, indeed, the Rabbinic view was in some measure derived
   from the Old Testament, though by an external and, therefore, false
   interpretation of its teaching. In the Old Testament, also, repentance'
   was Teshubhah ({hebrew}), return;' while, in the New Testament, it is
   change of mind' (metanoia). It would not be fair here to argue, that
   the common expression for repenting was to do penitence' ({hebrew}),
   since by its side we frequently meet that other: to return in
   penitence' ({hebrew}). Indeed, other terms for repentance also occur.
   Thus Tohu ({hebrew}) means repentance in the sense of regret; Charatah,
   perhaps, more in that of a change of mind; while Teyubha or Teshubhah
   is the return of repentance. Yet, according to the very common Rabbinic
   expression, there is a gate of repentance' ({hebrew}) through which a
   man must enter, and, even if Charatah be the sorrowing change of mind,
   it is at most only that gate. Thus, after all, there is more in the
   doing of penitence' than appears at first sight. In point of fact, the
   full meaning of repentance as Teshubhah, or return,' is only realised,
   when a man has returned from dereliction to observance of the Law.
   Then, sins of purpose are looked upon as if they had been unintentional
   - nay, they become even virtuous actions. [2412]

   We are not now speaking of the forgiveness of sins. In truth, Rabbinism
   knew nothing of a forgiveness of sin, free and unconditional, unless in
   the case of those who had not the power of doing anything for their
   atonement. Even in the passage which extols most the freeness and the
   benefits of repentance (the last pages of the Tractate on the Day of
   Atonement), there is the most painful discussion about sins great and
   small, about repentance from fear or from love, about sins against
   commands or against prohibitions; and, in what cases repentance
   averted, or else only deferred, judgment, leaving final expiation to be
   wrought by other means. These were: personal sufferings, [2413] death,
   [2414] or the Day of Atonement. [2415] Besides these, there were always
   the merits of the fathers;' [2416] or, perhaps, some one good work
   done; [2417] or, at any rate, the brief period of purgatorial pain,
   which might open the gate of mercy. These are the so-called advocates'
   (Peraqlitin, {hebrew}) of the penitent sinner. In a classical passage
   on the subject, [2418] repentance is viewed in its bearing on four
   different spiritual [2419] conditions, which are supposed to be
   respectively referred to in Jer. iii. 22; Lev. xvi. 30; Is. xxii. 14;
   and Ps. lxxxix. 32. The first of these refers to a breach of a command,
   with immediate and persistent cry for forgiveness, which is at once
   granted. The second is that of a breach of a prohibition, when, besides
   repentance, the Day of Atonement is required. The third is that of
   purposed sin, on which death or cutting off had been threatened, when,
   besides repentance and the Day of Atonement, sufferings are required;
   while in open profanation of the Name of God, only death can make final
   atonement. [2420]

   But the nature of repentance has yet to be more fully explained. Its
   gate is sorrow and shame. [2421] In that sense repentance may be the
   work of a moment, as in the twinkling of an eye,' [2422] and a life's
   sins may obtain mercy by the tears and prayers of a few minutes'
   repentance. [2423] [2424] To this also refers the beautiful saying,
   that all which rendered a sacrifice unfit for the altar, such as that
   it was broken, fitted the penitent for acceptance, since the sacrifices
   of God were a broken and contrite heart.' [2425] By the side of what
   may be called contrition, Jewish theology places confession (Viddui,
   {hebrew}). This was deemed so integral a part of repentance, that those
   about to be executed, [2426] or to die, [2427] were admonished to it.
   Achan of old had thus obtained pardon. [2428] But in the case of the
   living all this could only be regarded as repentance in the sense of
   being its preparation or beginning. Even if it were Charatah, or regret
   at the past, it would not yet be Teshubhah, or return to God; and even
   if it changed purposed into unintentional sin, arrested judgment, and
   stayed or banished its Angel, it would still leave a man without those
   works which are not only his real destiny and merit heaven, but
   constitute true repentance. For, as sin is ultimately dereliction of
   the Law, beginning within, so repentance is ultimately return to the
   Law. In this sense there is a higher and meritorious confession, which
   not only owns sin but God, and is therefore an inward return to Him. So
   Adam, when he saw the penitence of Cain, burst into this Psalm, [2429]
   It is a good thing to confess [2430] unto the Lord.' [2431] [2432]
   Manasseh, when in trouble, called upon God and was heard, [2433]
   although it is added, that this was only done in order to prove that
   the door of repentance was open to all. Indeed, the Angels had closed
   the windows of Heaven against his prayers, but God opened a place for
   their entrance beneath His throne of glory. [2434] Similarly, even
   Pharaoh, who, according to Jewish tradition, made in the Red Sea
   confession of God, [2435] was preserved, became king of Nineveh, and so
   brought the Ninevites to true repentance, which verily consisted not
   merely in sackcloth and fasting, but in restitution, so that every one
   who had stolen a beam pulled down his whole palace to restore it.
   [2436]

   But, after all, inward repentance only arrested the decrees of justice.
   [2437] That which really put the penitent into right relationship with
   God was good deeds. The term must here be taken in its widest sense.
   Fasting is meritorious in a threefold sense: as the expression of
   humiliation, [2438] as an offering to God, similar to, but better than
   the fat of sacrifices on the altar, [2439] and as preventing further
   sins by chastening and keeping under the body. [2440] A similar view
   must be taken of self-inflicted penances. [2441] [2442] On the other
   hand, there was restitution to those who had been wronged - as a woman
   once put it to her husband, to the surrender of one's girdle.' [2443]
   [2444] Nay, it must be of even more than was due in strict law. [2445]
   To this must be added public acknowledgment of public sins. If a person
   had sinned in one direction, he must not only avoid it for the future,
   [2446] but aim at doing all the more in the opposite direction, or of
   overcoming sin in the same circumstances of temptation. [2447] Beyond
   all this were the really good works, whether occupation with the Law
   [2448] or outward deeds, which constituted perfect repentance. Thus we
   read, [2449] that every time Israel gave alms or did any kindness, they
   made in this world great peace, and procured great Paracletes between
   Israel and their Father in Heaven. Still farther, we are told [2450]
   what a sinner must do who would be pardoned. If he had been accustomed
   daily to read one column in the Bible, let him read two; if to learn
   one chapter in the Mishnah, let him learn two. But if he be not learned
   enough to do either, let him become an administrator for the
   congregation, or a public distributor of alms. Nay, so far was the
   doctrine of external merit carried, that to be buried in the land of
   Israel was supposed to ensure forgiveness of sins. [2451] This may,
   finally, be illustrated by an instance, which also throws some light on
   the parable of Dives in Hades. Rabbi Simeon ben Lakish had in early
   life been the associate of two robbers. But he repented, returned to
   his God with all his heart, with fasting and prayer, was early and late
   before God, and busied himself with the Torah (Law) and the
   commandments.' Then both he and his former companions died, when they
   saw him in glory, while themselves were in the lowest hell. And when
   they reminded God, that with Him there was no regard of persons, He
   pointed to the Rabbi's penitence and their own impenitence. On this
   they asked for respite, that they might do great penitence,' when they
   were told that there was no space for repentance after death. This is
   farther enforced by a parable to the effect, that a man, who is going
   into the wilderness, must provide himself with bread and water while in
   the inhabited country, if he would not perish in the desert.

   Thus, in one and another respect, Rabbinic teaching about the need of
   repentance runs close to that of the Bible. But the vital difference
   between Rabbinism and the Gospel lies in this: that whereas Jesus
   Christ freely invited all sinners, whatever their past, assuring them
   of welcome and grace, the last word of Rabbinism is only despair, and a
   kind of Pessimism. For, it is expressly and repeatedly declared in the
   case of certain sins, and, characteristically, of heresy, that, even if
   a man genuinely and truly repented, he must expect immediately to die -
   indeed, his death would be the evidence that his repentance was
   genuine, since, though such a sinner might turn from his evil, it would
   be impossible for him, if he lived, to lay hold on the good, and to do
   it. [2452]

   It is in the light of what we have just learned concerning the Rabbinic
   views of forgiveness and repentance that the call of Levi-Matthew must
   be read, if we would perceive its full meaning. There is no need to
   suppose that it took place immediately on the cure of the paralytic. On
   the contrary, the more circumstantial account of St. Mark implies, that
   some time had intervened. [2453] If our suggestion be correct, that it
   was winter when the paralytic was healed at Capernaum, we may suppose
   it to have been the early spring-time of that favoured district, when
   Jesus went forth again by the seaside.' And with this, as we shall see,
   best agrees the succession of afterevents.

   Few, if any, could have enjoyed better opportunities for hearing, and
   quietly thinking over the teaching of the Prophet of Nazareth, than
   Levi-Matthew. There is no occasion for speculating which was his
   original, or whether the second name was added after his conversion,
   since in Galilee it was common to have two names - one the strictly
   Jewish, the other the Galilean. [2454] Nor do we wonder, that in the
   sequel the first or purely Jewish name of Levi was dropped, and only
   that of Matthew (Matti, Mattai, Matteya, Mattithyah), retained. The
   latter which is the equivalent of Nathanael, or of the Greek Theodore
   (gift of God), seems to have been frequent. We read that it was that of
   a former Temple-official, [2455] and of several Rabbis. [2456] It is
   perhaps of more interest, that the Talmud [2457] names five as the
   disciples of Jesus, and among them these two whom we can clearly
   identify: Matthew [2458] and Thaddæus. [2459]

   Sitting before [2460] his custom-house, as on that day when Jesus
   called him, Matthew must have frequently heard Him as He taught by the
   sea-shore. For this would be the best, and therefore often chosen,
   place for the purpose. Thither not only the multitude from Capernaum
   could easily follow; but here was the landing-place for the many ships
   which traversed the Lake, or coasted from town to town. And this not
   only for them who had business in Capernaum or that neighbourhood, but
   also for those who would then strike the great road of Eastern
   commerce, which led from Damascus to the harbours of the West. Touching
   the Lake in that very neighbourhood, it turned thence, northwards and
   westwards, to join what was termed the Upper Galilean road.

   We know much, and yet, as regards details, perhaps too little about
   those tolls, dues, and customs,' which made the Roman administration
   such sore and vexatious exaction to all Provincials,' and which in
   Judæa loaded the very name of publican with contempt and hatred. They
   who cherished the gravest religious doubts as to the lawfulness of
   paying any tribute to Cæsar, as involving in principle recognition of a
   bondage to which they would fain have closed their eyes, and the
   substitution of heathen kingship for that of Jehovah, must have looked
   on the publican as the very embodiment of antinationalism. But perhaps
   men do not always act under the constant consciousness of such abstract
   principles. Yet the endless vexatious interferences, the unjust and
   cruel exactions, the petty tyranny, and the extortionate avarice, from
   which there was neither defense nor appeal, would make it always
   well-nigh unbearable. It is to this that the Rabbis so often refer. If
   publicans' were disqualified from being judges or witnesses, it was, at
   least so far as regarded witness-bearing, because they exacted more
   than was due.' [2461] Hence also it was said, that repentance was
   specially difficult for tax-gatherers and custom-house officers. [2462]
   [2463]

   It is of importance to notice, that the Talmud distinguishes two
   classes of publicans:' the tax-gatherer in general (Gabbai), and the
   Mokhes, or Mokhsa, who was specially the douanier or custom-house
   official. [2464] Although both classes fall under the Rabbinic ban, the
   douanier - such as Matthew was - is the object of chief execration. And
   this, because his exactions were more vexatious, and gave more scope to
   rapacity. The Gabbai, or tax-gatherer, collected the regular dues,
   which consisted of ground-, income-, and poll-tax. The ground-tax
   amounted to one-tenth of all grain and one-fifth of the wine and fruit
   grown; partly paid in kind, and partly commuted into money. The
   income-tax amounted to 1 per cent.; while the head-money, or poll-tax,
   was levied on all persons, bond and free, in the case of men from the
   age of fourteen, in that of women from the age of twelve, up to that of
   sixty-five.

   If this offered many opportunities for vexatious exactions and
   rapacious injustice, the Mokhes might inflict much greater hardship
   upon the poor people. There was tax and duty upon all imports and
   exports; on all that was bought and sold; bridge-money, road-money,
   harbour-dues, town-dues, &c. The classical reader knows the ingenuity
   which could invent a tax, and find a name for every kind of exaction,
   such as on axles, wheels, pack-animals, pedestrians, roads, highways;
   on admission to markets; on carriers, bridges, ships, and quays; on
   crossing rivers, on dams, on licences, in short, on such a variety of
   objects, that even the research of modern scholars has not been able to
   identify all the names. On goods the ad valorem duty amounted to from
   2½ to 5, and on articles of luxury to even 12½ per cent. But even this
   was as nothing, compared to the vexation of being constantly stopped on
   the journey, having to unload all one's pack-animals, when every bale
   and package was opened, and the contents tumbled about, private letters
   opened, and the Mokhes ruled supreme in his insolence and rapacity.

   The very word Mokhes seems, in its root-meaning, associated with the
   idea of oppression and injustice. He was literally, as really, an
   oppressor. The Talmud charges them with gross partiality, remitting in
   the case of those to whom they wished to show favour, and exacting from
   those who were not their favourites. They were a criminal race, to
   which Lev. xx. 5 applied. It was said, that there never was a family
   which numbered a Mokhes, in which all did not become such. Still, cases
   are recorded when a religious publican would extend favour to Rabbis,
   or give them timely notice to go into hiding. If one belonging to the
   sacred association (a Chabher) became either a Gabbai or a Mokhes, he
   was at once expelled, although he might be restored on repentance.
   [2465] That there was ground for such rigour, appears from such an
   occurrence, [2466] as when a Mokhes took from a defenseless person his
   ass, giving him another, and very inferior, animal for it. Against such
   unscrupulous oppressors every kind of deception was allowed; goods
   might be declared to be votive offerings, [2467] or a person pass his
   slave as his son. [2468]

   The Mokhes was called great' [2469] if he employed substitutes, and
   small' if he stood himself at the receipt of custom. Till the time of
   Cæsar the taxes were farmed in Rome, at the highest bidding, mostly by
   a joint-stock company of the knightly order, which employed publicans
   under them. But by a decree of Cæsar, the taxes of Judæa were no longer
   farmed, but levied by publicans in Judæa, and paid directly to the
   Government, the officials being appointed by the provincials
   themselves. [2470] [2471] This was, indeed, a great alleviation,
   although it perhaps made the tax-gatherers only more unpopular, as
   being the direct officials of the heathen power. This also explains
   how, if the Mishnah forbids [2472] even the changing of money from the
   guilt-laden chest of a Mokhes, or douanier, the Gemara [2473] adds,
   that such applied to custom-house officers who either did not keep to
   the tax appointed by the Government, or indeed to any fixed tax, and to
   those who appointed themselves to such office - that is, as we take it,
   who would volunteer for the service, in the hope of making profit on
   their own account. An instance is, however, related of a Gabbai, or
   tax-gatherer, becoming a celebrated Rabbi, though the taint of his
   former calling deterred the more rigid of his colleagues from
   intercourse with him. [2474] On heathen feast days toll was remitted to
   those who came to the festival. [2475] Sometimes this was also done
   from kindness. [2476] The following story may serve as a final
   illustration of the popular notions, alike about publicans and about
   the merit of good works. The son of a Mokhes and that of a very pious
   man had died. The former received from his townsmen all honour at his
   burial, while the latter was carried unmourned to the grave. This
   anomaly was Divinely explained by the circumstance, that the pious man
   had committed one transgression, and the publican had done one good
   deed. But a few days afterwards a further vision and dream was
   vouchsafed to the survivors, when the pious was seen walking in gardens
   beside water-brooks, while the publican was described stretching out
   his tongue towards the river to quench his thirst, but unable to reach
   the refreshing stream. [2477]

   What has been described in such detail, will cast a peculiar light on
   the call of Matthew by the Saviour of sinners. For, we remember that
   Levi-Matthew was not only a publican,' but of the worst kind: a Mokhes'
   or douanier; a little Mokhes,' who himself stood at his custom-house;
   one of the class to whom, as we are told, repentance offered special
   difficulties. And, of all such officials, those who had to take toll
   from ships were perhaps the worst, if we are to judge by the proverb:
   Woe to the ship which sails without having paid the dues.' [2478] And
   yet, after all, Matthew may have been only one of that numerous class
   to whom religion is merely a matter quite outside of, and in another
   region from life, and who, having first gone astray through ignorance,
   feel themselves ever farther repelled, or rather shut out, by the
   narrow, harsh uncharitableness of those whom they look upon as the
   religious and pious.

   But now quite another day had dawned on him. The Prophet of Nazareth
   was not like those other great Rabbis, or their pietist, self-righteous
   imitators. There was that about Him which not only aroused the
   conscience, but drew the heart - compelling, not repelling. What He
   said opened a new world. His very appearance bespoke Him not harsh,
   self-righteous, far away, but the Helper, if not even the Friend, of
   sinners. There was not between Him and one like Matthew, the great,
   almost impassable gap of repentance. He had seen and heard Him in the
   Synagogue - and who that had heard His Words, or witnessed His power,
   could ever forget, or lose the impression? The people, the rulers, even
   the evil spirits, had owned His authority. But in the Synagogue Jesus
   was still the Great One, far-away from him; and he, Levi-Matthew, the
   little Mokhes' of Capernaum, to whom, as the Rabbis told him,
   repentance was next to impossible. But out there, in the open, by the
   seashore, it was otherwise. All unobserved by others, he observed all,
   and could yield himself, without reserve, to the impression. Now, it
   was an eager multitude that came from Capernaum; then, a long train
   bearing sufferers, to whom gracious, full, immediate relief was granted
   - whether they were Rabbinic saints, or sinners. And still more
   gracious than His deeds were His Words.

   And so Matthew sat before his custom-house, and hearkened and hoped.
   Those white-sailed ships would bring crowds of listeners; the busy
   caravan on that highway would stop, and its wayfarers turn aside to
   join the eager multitude - to hear the Word or see the Word. Surely, it
   was not a time for buying and selling,' and Levi would have little
   work, and less heart for it at his custom-house. Perhaps he may have
   witnessed the call of the first Apostles; he certainly must have known
   the fishermen and shipowners of Capernaum. And now it appeared, as if
   Jesus had been brought still nearer to Matthew. For, the great ones of
   Israel, the Scribes of the Pharisees,' [2479] and their pietest
   followers, had combined against Him, and would exclude Him, not on
   account of sin, but on account of the sinners. And so, we take it, long
   before that eventful day which for ever decided his life, Matthew had,
   in heart, become the disciple of Jesus. Only he dared not, could not,
   have hoped for personal recognition - far less for call to
   discipleship. But when it came, and Jesus fixed on him that look of
   love which searched the inmost deep of the soul, and made Him the true
   Fisher of men, it needed not a moment's thought or consideration. When
   he spake it, Follow Me,' the past seemed all swallowed up in the
   present heaven of bliss. He said not a word, for his soul was in the
   speechless surprise of unexpected love and grace; but he rose up, left
   the custom-house, and followed Him. That was a gain that day, not of
   Matthew alone, but of all the poor and needy in Israel - nay, of all
   sinners from among men, to whom the door of heaven was opened. And,
   verily, by the side of Peter, as the stone, we place Levi-Matthew, as
   typical of those rafters laid on the great foundation, and on which is
   placed the flooring of that habitation of the Lord, which is His
   Church.

   It could not have been long after this - probably almost immediately -
   that the memorable gathering took place in the house of Matthew, which
   gave occasion to that cavil of the Pharisaic Scribes, which served
   further to bring out the meaning of Levi's call. For, opposition ever
   brings into clearer light positive truth, just as judgment comes never
   alone, but always conjoined with display of higher mercy. It was
   natural that all the publicans around should, after the call of
   Matthew, have come to his house to meet Jesus. Even from the lowest
   point of view, the event would give them a new standing in the Jewish
   world, in relation to the Prophet of Nazareth. And it was
   characteristic that Jesus should improve such opportunity. When we read
   of sinners' as in company with these publicans, it is not necessary to
   think of gross or open offenders, though such may have been included.
   For, we know what such a term may have included in the Pharisaic
   vocabulary. Equally characteristic was it, that the Rabbinists should
   have addressed their objection as to fellowship with such, not to the
   Master, but to the disciples. Perhaps, it was not only, nor chiefly,
   from moral cowardice, though they must have known what the reply of
   Jesus would have been. On the other hand, there was wisdom, or rather
   cunning, in putting it to the disciples. They were but initial learners
   - and the question was one not so much of principle, as of acknowledged
   Jewish propriety. Had they been able to lodge this cavil in their
   minds, it would have fatally shaken the confidence of the disciples in
   the Master; and, if they could have been turned aside, the cause of the
   new Christ would have been grievously injured, if not destroyed. It was
   with the same object, that they shortly afterwards enlisted the aid of
   the well-meaning, but only partially-instructed disciples of John on
   the question of fasting, [2480] which presented a still stronger
   consensus of Jewish opinion as against Christ, all the more telling,
   that here the practice of John seemed to clash with that of Jesus.

   But then John was at the time in prison, and passing through the
   temporary darkness of a thick cloud towards the fuller light. But Jesus
   could not leave His disciples to answer for themselves. What, indeed,
   could or would they have had to say? And He ever speaks for us, when we
   cannot answer for ourselves. From their own standpoint and contention -
   nay, also in their own form of speech - He answered the Pharisees. And
   He not only silenced their gain-saying, but further opened up the
   meaning of His acting - nay, His very purpose and Mission. No need have
   they who are strong and in health [2481] of a physician, but they who
   are ill.' It was the very principle of Pharisaism which He thus set
   forth, alike as regarded their self-exclusion from Him and His
   consorting with the diseased. And, as the more Hebraic St. Matthew
   adds, applying the very Rabbinic formula, so often used when
   superficial speciousness of knowledge is directed to further thought
   and information: Go and learn!' [2482] Learn what? What their own
   Scriptures meant; what was implied in the further prophetic teaching,
   as correction of a one-sided literalism and externalism that
   misinterpreted the doctrine of sacrifices - learn that fundamental
   principle of the spiritual meaning of the Law as explanatory of its
   mere letter, I will have mercy, and not sacrifice.' They knew no mercy
   that was not sacrifice [2483] - with merit attaching; He no sacrifice,
   real and acceptable to God, that was not mercy. And this also is a
   fundamental principle of the Old Testament, as spiritually understood;
   and, being such a fundamental principle, He afterwards again applied
   this saying of the prophet [2484] to His own mode of viewing and
   treating the Sabbath-question. [2485]

   This was one aspect of it, as Jesus opened up anew the Old Testament,
   of which their key of knowledge had only locked the door. There was yet
   another and higher, quite explaining and applying alike this saying and
   the whole Old Testament, and thus His Own Mission. And this was the
   fullest unfolding and highest vindication of it: For, I am not come to
   call righteous men, but sinners.' [2486] The introduction of the words
   to repentance' in some manuscripts of St. Matthew and St. Mark shows,
   how early the full meaning of Christ's words was misinterpreted by
   prosaic apologetic attempts, that failed to fathom their depth. For,
   Christ called sinners to better and higher than repentance, even to
   Himself and His Kingdom; and to emendate' the original record by
   introducing these words from another Gospel [2487] marks a purpose,
   indicative of retrogression. And this saying of Christ concerning the
   purpose of His Incarnation and Work: to call not righteous men, but
   sinners,' also marks the standpoint of the Christ, and the relation
   which each of us, according to his view of self, of righteousness, and
   of sin - personally, voluntarily, and deliberately - occupies towards
   the Kingdom and the Christ.

   The history of the call of St. Matthew has also another, to some extent
   subordinate, historical interest, for it was no doubt speedily followed
   by the calling of the other Apostles. [2488] This is the chronological
   succession in the Synoptic narratives. It also affords some insight
   into the history of those, whom the Lord chose as bearers of His
   Gospel. The difficulties connected with tracing the family descent or
   possible relationship between the Apostles are so great, that we must
   forego all hope of arriving at any certain conclusion. Without,
   therefore, entering on details about the genealogy of the Apostles, and
   the varied arrangement of their names in the Gospels, which, with
   whatever uncertainty remaining in the end, may be learned from any work
   on the subject, some points at least seem clear. First, it appears that
   only the calling of those to the Apostolate is related, which in some
   sense is typical, viz. that of Peter and Andrew, of James and John, of
   Philip and Bartholomew (or Bar Telamyon, or Temalyon, [2489] generally
   supposed the same as Nathanael), and of Matthew the publican. Yet,
   secondly, there is something which attaches to each of the others.
   Thomas, who is called Didymus (which means twin'), is closely connected
   with Matthew, both in St. Luke's Gospel and in that of St. Matthew
   himself. James is expressly named as the son of Alphæus or Clopas.
   [2490] [2491] This we know to have been also the name of Matthew-Levi's
   father. But, as the name was a common one, no inference can be drawn
   from it, and it does not seem likely that the father of Matthew was
   also that of James, Judas, and Simon, for these three seem to have been
   brothers. Judas is designated by St. Matthew as Lebbaeus, from the
   Hebrew lebh, a heart, and is also named, both by him and by St. Mark,
   Thaddæus - a term which, however, we would not derive, as is commonly
   done, from thad, the female breast,' but following the analogy of the
   Jewish name Thodah, from praise.' [2492] In that case both Lebbæus and
   Thaddæus would point to the heartiness and the Thanksgiving of the
   Apostle, and hence to his character. St. Luke simply designates him
   Judas of James, which means that he was the brother (less probably, the
   son) of James. [2493] Thus his real name would have been Judas Lebbæus,
   and his surname Thaddæus. Closely connected with these two we have in
   all the Gospels, Simon, surnamed Zelotes or Cananæan (not Canaanite),
   both terms indicating his original connection with the Galilean Zealot
   party, the Zealots for the Law.' [2494] His position in the Apostolic
   Catalogue, and the testimony of Hegesippus, [2495] seem to point him
   out as the son of Clopas, and brother of James, and of Judas Lebbæus.
   These three were, in a sense, cousins of Christ, since, according to
   Hegesippus, Clopas was the brother of Joseph, while the sons of Zebedee
   were real cousins, their mother Salome being a sister of the Virgin.
   [2496] Lastly, we have Judas Iscariot, or Ish Kerioth, a man of
   Kerioth,' a town in Judah. [2497] Thus the betrayer alone would be of
   Judæan origin, the others all of Galilean; and this may throw light on
   not a little in his after-history.

   No further reference than this briefest sketch seems necessary,
   although on comparison it is clear that the Apostolic Catalogues in the
   Gospels are ranged in three groups, each of them beginning with
   respectively the same name (Simon, Philip, and James the son of
   Alphaeus). This, however, we may remark - how narrow, after all, was
   the Apostolic circle, and how closely connected most of its members.
   And yet, as we remember the history of their calling, or those notices
   attached to their names which afford a glimpse into their history, it
   was a circle, thoroughly representative of those who would gather
   around the Christ. Most marked and most solemn of all, it was after a
   night of solitary prayer on the mountain-side, that Jesus at early dawn
   called His disciples, and of them He chose twelve, whom also He named
   Apostles,' that they should be with Him, and that He might send them
   forth to preach, and to have power to heal sickness and to cast out
   devils.' [2498]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [2391] The words to repentance' are certainly spurious in St. Matt. and
   St. Mark. I regard theirs as the original and authentic report of the
   words of Christ. In St. Luke v. 32, the words unto repentance' do
   certainly occur. But, with Godet, I regard them as referring to the
   righteous,' and as used, in a sense ironically.

   [2392] So in all the three Gospels.

   [2393] Yoma 29 a.

   [2394] Sot. 3 a.

   [2395] Rosh haSh. 17 a.

   [2396] Comp. Sepher Iqqarim iv. 28.

   [2397] Ber. 34 h.

   [2398] Vayyik. R. 7.

   [2399] It would be quite one-sided to represent this as the only
   meaning, as, it seems to me, Weber has done in his System d.
   altsynagog, palaest. Theol.' This, and a certain defectiveness in the
   treatment, are among the blemishes in this otherwise interesting and
   very able posthumous work.

   [2400] Pes. 54 a; Ber. R. 1.

   [2401] So in too many passages for enumeration.

   [2402] Yoma 69 b; Ber. R. 9, and in many places.

   [2403] Some of these points have already been stated. But it was
   necessary to repeat them so as to give a connected view.

   [2404] Sanh. 99 a; Maimon. Hil. Tesh. Per. 7.

   [2405] Sanh. 99 a; Ber. 34 b.

   [2406] Yalkut on Ps. xxxii. p. 101 b.

   [2407] Sanh. 98 a.

   [2408] Sanh. 98 a; Jer. Taan. 64 a.

   [2409] Sanh. 98 a.

   [2410] St. Luke xvii. 10.

   [2411] So, according to Rabbinism, both in the Sepher Iqqar. and in
   Menor. Hammaor.

   [2412] Yoma 86.

   [2413] Ber. 5 a, b; Kidd. 81 b.

   [2414] Yoma u. s.

   [2415] Yoma u. s., and many passages.

   [2416] In almost innumerable passages.

   [2417] Ab. Zar. 5 a.

   [2418] Mechilta, 76 a.

   [2419] In Menorath Hammaor (Ner v. 1. 1, 2) seven kinds of repentance
   in regard to seven different conditions are mentioned. They are
   repentance immediately after the commission of sin; after a course of
   sin, but while there is still the power of sinning; where there is no
   longer the occasion for sinning; where it is caused by admonition, or
   fear of danger; where it is caused by actual affliction; where a man is
   old, and unable to sin; and, lastly, repentance in prospect of death.

   [2420] See also Yoma 86 and following.

   [2421] Ber. 12 b; Chag. 5 a.

   [2422] Pesiqta ed. Bub. p. 163 b.

   [2423] Ab. Zar. 17 a.

   [2424] This is illustrated, among other things, by the history of a
   Rabbi who, at the close of a dissolute life, became a convert by
   repentance. The story of the occasion of his repentance is not at all
   nice in its realistic details, and the tears with which a
   self-righteous colleague saw the beatification of the penitent are
   painfully illustrative of the elder brother in the Parable of the
   Prodigal Son (Ab. Z. 17 a).

   [2425] Vayyik. R. 7.

   [2426] Sanh. vi. 2.

   [2427] Shabb. 32 a.

   [2428] Sanh. u. s.

   [2429] Ps. xcii.

   [2430] So it would need to be rendered in this context.

   [2431] Ber. R. 22.

   [2432] Another beautiful allegory is that, in the fear of Adam, as the
   night closed in upon his guilt, God gave him two stones to rub against
   each other, which produced the spark of light - the rubbing of these
   two stones being emblematic of repentance (Pes. 54 a; Ber. R. 11, 12).

   [2433] 2 Chron. xxxiii. 12, 13.

   [2434] Debar. R. 2; ed. Warsh. p. 7 a; comp. Sanh. 102 b, last lines,
   and 103 a.

   [2435] Ex. xv. 11.

   [2436] Taan. 16 a.

   [2437] Rosh haSh. 17 b.

   [2438] Baba. Mez. 85 a.

   [2439] Ber. 17 a.

   [2440] u. s.

   [2441] Baba Mez. 85 a.

   [2442] Baba Mez. 84 b (quoted by Weber) is scarcely an instance. The
   whole of that part of the Talmud is specially repugnant, from its
   unsavory character and grossly absurd stories. In one of the stories in
   Baba Mez. 85, a Rabbi tries by sitting over the fire in an oven,
   whether he has become impervious to the fire of Gehinnom. For thirty
   days he was successful, but after that it was noticed his thighs were
   singed, whence he was called the little one with the singed thighs.'

   [2443] Tanch. Noach 4.

   [2444] But such restitution was sometimes not insisted on, for the sake
   of encouraging penitents.

   [2445] See the discussion in B. Mez. 37 a.

   [2446] Rabbinism has an apt illustration of this in the saying, that
   all the baths of lustration would not cleanse a man, so long as he
   continued holding in his hand that which had polluted him (Taan. 16 a).

   [2447] These statements are all so thoroughly Rabbinic that it is
   needless to make special references.

   [2448] Vayyik. R. 3, towards the end.

   [2449] In B. Bab. 10 a.

   [2450] Vayyik. R. 25, beg. ed. Warsh. p. 38 a.

   [2451] Tanch. on Gen. xlviii.

   [2452] Ab. Zar. 17 a.

   [2453] St. Mark ii. 13.

   [2454] Gitt. 34 b.

   [2455] Sheq. v. 1.

   [2456] Eduy. ii. 5; Yoma 84 a.

   [2457] Sanh. 43 a, in the older editions; comp, Chesron. haShas, p. 22
   b.

   [2458] A ridiculous story is told that Matthew endeavored to avert
   sentence of death by a play on his name, quoting Ps. xlii. 2: Mathai
   (in our version, When') I shall come and appear before God;' to which
   the judges replied by similarly adapting Ps. xli. 5: Mathai (in our
   version, When') he shall die, and his name perish.'

   [2459] The other three disciples are named: Neqai, Netser, and Boni, or
   Buni. In Taan. 20 a a miracle is related which gave to Boni the name of
   Nicodemus (Naqdimon). But I regard this as some confusion, of which
   there is much in connection with the name of Nicodemus in the Talmud.
   According to the Talmud, like Matthew, the other three tried to save
   their lives by punning appeals to Scripture, similar to that of St.
   Matthew. Thus, Neqai quotes Exod. xxiii. 7, Naqi (the innocent' in our
   version) and the righteous shalt thou not slay,' to which the judges
   replied by Ps. x. 8, in the secret places he shall slay Naqi (the
   innocent' in our version)'. Again, Netser pleads Is. xi. 1: Netser (a
   branch) shall grow out of his roots,' to which the judges reply, Is.
   xiv. 19: Thou art cast out of thy grave like an abominable Netser'
   (branch), while Boni tries to save his life by a pun on Exod. iv. 22:
   My first-born Beni (in our version, my son') is Israel,' to which the
   judges reply by quoting the next verse, I will slay Binkha (in our
   version, thy son'), thy first-born!' If the Hebrew Beni was sometimes
   pronounced Boni, this may account for the Grecianised form Boanerges
   (sons of thunder') for Beney-Regosh, or Regasha. In Hebrew the root
   scarcely means even noise' (see Gesenius sub {hebrew}), but it has that
   meaning in the Aramæan. Kautzsch (Gram. d. Bibl.-Aram.) suggests the
   word regaz anger,' angry impetuosity.' But the suggestion does not
   commend itself.

   [2460] p t telnion.

   [2461] Sanh. 25 b.

   [2462] Baba K. 94 b.

   [2463] With them herdsmen were conjoined, on account of their frequent
   temptations to dishonesty, and their wild lives far from ordinances.

   [2464] Wünsche is mistaken in making the Gabbai the superior, and the
   Mokhes the subordinate, tax-collector. See Levy, Neuhebr. Wörterb, iii.
   p. 116 a.

   [2465] Jer. Dem. 23 a; comp. Bekhor. 31 a.

   [2466] In B. Kamma x. 2.

   [2467] Nedar. iii. 4.

   [2468] Jer. Kidd. 66 b.

   [2469] Shabb. 78 b.

   [2470] Jos. Ant. xiv. 10. 5.

   [2471] Comp. Wieseler's Beitr. pp. 75-78. Hence the publicans' were not
   subordinates, but direct officials of the Government.

   [2472] B. Kamma x. 1.

   [2473] Baba K. 113 a.

   [2474] Bekhor. 31 a.

   [2475] Ab. Zar. 13 a.

   [2476] Tos. B. Mets. viii. 25, ed. Zuck.

   [2477] Jer. Chag. 77 d; comp Jer. Sanh. 23 c, and Sanh. 44 b.

   [2478] Ab. Zar. 10 b.

   [2479] This is perhaps the better reading of St. Mark ii. 16.

   [2480] St. Matt. ix. 14-17.

   [2481] The latter in St. Luke v. 31.

   [2482] {hebrew}, a very common formula, where further thought and
   instruction are required. So common, indeed, is it, that it is applied
   in the sense of let,' such or such thing come and teach' ({hebrew}).
   Sometimes the formula is varied, as {hebrew}, come and see' (Baba Bath.
   10 a), or {hebrew}, go and see' (u. s., b).

   [2483] Even in that beautiful page in the Talmud (Succ. 49 b)
   righteousness and sacrifices are compared, the former being declared
   the greater; and then righteousness is compared with works of kindness
   with alms, &c.

   [2484] Hos. vi. 6.

   [2485] St. Matt. xii. 7.

   [2486] Mark the absence of the Article.

   [2487] See the note on p. 507.

   [2488] St. Matt. x. 2-4; St. Mark iii. 13-19; St. Luke vi. 12-19.

   [2489] Vayyik. R. 6; Pesiq, R. 22, ed. Friedm. p. 113 a.

   [2490] St. John xix. 25.

   [2491] Thus he would be the same as James the Less,' or rather the
   Little,' a son of Mary, the sister-in-law of the Virgin-Mother.

   [2492] As is done in the Rabbinic story where Thaddæus appeals to Ps.
   c. 1 (superscription) to save his life, while the Rabbis reply by
   appealing to Ps. l. 23: Whoso offereth praise (thodah) glorifieth Me'
   (Sanh. 43 a, Chesr. haSh.).

   [2493] St. Luke vi. 15; comp. St. John xiv. 22.

   [2494] War. iv. 3, 9.

   [2495] Euseb. H. E. iii. 11; iv. 22.

   [2496] As to the identity of the names Alphaeus and Clopas, comp.
   Wetzel in the Theol. Stud. u. Krit. for 1883, Heft iii. See also
   further remarks on the sons of Clopas, in the comment on St. John xix.
   25 in Book V. ch. xv.

   [2497] Josh. xv. 25.

   [2498] As to the designation Boanerges (sons of thunder), see note 2,
   p. 514.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XVIII.
THE SERMON ON THE MOUNT - THE KINGDOM OF CHRIST AND RABBINIC TEACHING. [2499]

   (St. Matt. v.-vii.)

   It was probably on one of those mountain-ranges, which stretch to the
   north of Capernaum, that Jesus had spent the night of lonely prayer,
   which preceded the designation of the twelve to the Apostolate. As the
   soft spring morning broke, He called up those who had learned to follow
   Him, and from among them chose the twelve, who were to be His
   Ambassadors and Representatives. [2500] [2501] But already the early
   light had guided the eager multitude which, from all parts, had come to
   the broad level plateau beneath to bring to Him their need of soul or
   body. To them He now descended with words of comfort and power of
   healing. But better yet had He to say, and to do for them, and for us
   all. As they pressed around Him for that touch which brought virtue of
   healing to all, He retired again to the mountain-height, [2502] and
   through the clear air of the bright spring day spake, what has ever
   since been known as the Sermon on the Mount,' from the place where He
   sat, or as that in the plain' (St. Luke vi. 17), from the place where
   He had first met the multitude, and which so many must have continued
   to occupy while He taught.

   The first and most obvious, perhaps, also, most superficial thought, is
   that which brings this teaching of Christ into comparison, we shall not
   say with that of His contemporaries - since scarcely any who lived in
   the time of Jesus said aught that can be compared with it - but with
   the best of the wisdom and piety of the Jewish sages, as preserved in
   Rabbinic writings. Its essential difference, or rather contrariety, in
   spirit and substance, not only when viewed as a whole, but in almost
   each of its individual parts, will be briefly shown in the sequel. For
   the present we only express this as deepest conviction, that it were
   difficult to say which brings greater astonishment (though of opposite
   kind): a first reading of the Sermon on the Mount,' or that of any
   section of the Talmud. The general reader is here at a double
   disadvantage. From his upbringing in an atmosphere which Christ's Words
   have filled with heaven's music, he knows not, and cannot know, the
   nameless feeling which steals over a receptive soul when, in the
   silence of our moral wilderness, those voices first break on the ear,
   that had never before been wakened to them. How they hold the soul
   entranced, calling up echoes of inmost yet unrealised aspiration,
   itself the outcome of the God-born and God-tending within us, and which
   renders us capable of new birth into the Kingdom; call up, also,
   visions and longings of that world of heavenly song, so far away and
   yet so near us; and fill the soul with subduedness, expectancy, and
   ecstasy! So the travel-stained wanderer flings him down on the nearest
   height, to feast his eyes with the first sight of home in the still
   valley beneath; so the far-of exile sees in his dreams visions of his
   child-life, all transfigured; so the weary prodigal leans his head in
   silent musing of mingled longing and rest on a mother's knee. So, and
   much more; for, it is the Voice of God Which speaks to us in the cool
   of the evening, amidst the trees of the lost Garden; to us who, in very
   shame and sorrow, hide, and yet even so hear, not words of judgment but
   of mercy, not concerning an irrevocable, and impossible past, but
   concerning a real and to us possible future, which is that past, only
   better, nearer, dearer - for, that it is not the human which has now to
   rise to the Divine, but the Divine which has come down to the human.

   Or else, turn from this to a first reading of the wisdom of the Jewish
   Fathers in their Talmud. It little matters, what part be chosen for the
   purpose. Here, also, the reader is at disadvantage, since his
   instructors present to him too frequently broken sentences, extracts
   torn from their connection, words often mistranslated as regards their
   real meaning, or misapplied as regards their bearing and spirit; at
   best, only isolated sentences. Take these in their connection and real
   meaning, and what a terrible awakening! Who, that has read half-a-dozen
   pages successively of any part of the Talmud, can feel otherwise than
   by turns shocked, pained, amused, or astounded? There is here wit and
   logic, quickness and readiness, earnestness and zeal, but by the side
   of it terrible profanity, uncleanness, superstition and folly. Taken as
   a whole, it is not only utterly unspiritual, but anti-spiritual. Not
   that the Talmud is worse than might be expected of such writings in
   such times and circumstances, perhaps in many respects much better -
   always bearing in mind the particular standpoint of narrow nationalism,
   without which Talmudism itself could not have existed, and which
   therefore is not an accretion, but an essential part of it. But, taken
   not in abrupt sentences and quotations, but as a whole, it is so
   utterly and immeasurably unlike the New Testament, that it is not easy
   to determine which, as the case may be, is greater, the ignorance or
   the presumption of those who put them side by side. Even where
   spiritual life pulsates, it seems propelled through valves that are
   diseased, and to send the life-blood gurgling back upon the heart, or
   along ossified arteries that quiver not with life at its touch. And to
   the reader of such disjointed Rabbinic quotations there is this further
   source of misunderstanding, that the form and sound of words is so
   often the same as that of the sayings of Jesus, however different their
   spirit. For, necessarily, the wine - be it new or old - made in Judæa,
   comes to us in Palistinian vessels. The new teaching, to be
   historically true, must have employed the old forms and spoken the old
   language. But the ideas underlying terms equally employed by Jesus and
   the teachers of Israel are, in everything that concerns the relation of
   souls to God, so absolutely different as not to bear comparison. Whence
   otherwise the enmity and opposition to Jesus from the first, and not
   only after His Divine claim had been pronounced? These two, starting
   from principles alien and hostile, follow opposite directions, and lead
   to other goals. He who has thirsted and quenched his thirst at the
   living fount of Christ's Teaching, can never again stoop to seek drink
   at the broken cisterns of Rabbinism.

   We take here our standpoint on St. Matthew's account of the Sermon on
   the Mount,' to which we can scarcely doubt that by St. Luke [2503] is
   parallel. Not that it is easy, or perhaps even possible to determine,
   whether all that is now grouped in the Sermon on the Mount' was really
   spoken by Jesus on this one occasion. From the plan and structure of
   St. Matthew's Gospel, the presumption seems rather to the contrary.
   For, isolated parts of it are introduced by St. Luke in other
   connections, yet quite fitly. [2504] On the other hand, even in
   accordance with the traditional characterisation of St. Matthew's
   narrative, we expect in it the fullest account of our Lord's
   Discourses, [2505] while we also notice that His Galilean Ministry
   forms the main subject of the First Gospel. [2506] And there is one
   characteristic of the Sermon on the Mount' which, indeed, throws light
   on the plan of St. Matthew's work in its apparent chronological
   inversion of events, such as in its placing the Sermon on the Mount'
   before the calling of the Apostles. We will not designate the Sermon on
   the Mount' as the promulgation of the New Law, since that would be a
   far too narrow, if not erroneous, view of it. But it certainly seems to
   correspond to the Divine Revelation in the Ten Words' from Mount Sinai.
   Accordingly, it seems appropriate that the Genesis-part of St.
   Matthew's Gospel should be immediately followed by the Exodus-part, in
   which the new Revelation is placed in the forefront, to the seeming
   breach of historical order, leaving it afterwards to be followed by an
   appropriate grouping of miracles and events, which we know to have
   really preceded the Sermon on the Mount.'

   Very many-sided is that Sermon on the Mount,' so that different
   writers, each viewing it from his standpoint, have differently sketched
   its general outline, and yet carried to our minds the feeling that thus
   far they had correctly understood it. We also might attempt humble
   contribution towards the same end. Viewing it in the light of the time,
   we might mark in it alike advancement on the Old Testament (or rather,
   unfolding of its inmost, yet hidden meaning), and contrast to
   contemporary Jewish teaching. And here we would regard it as presenting
   the full delineation of the ideal man of God, of prayer, and of
   righteousness - in short, of the inward and outward manifestation of
   discipleship. Or else, keeping before us the different standpoint of
   His hearers, we might in this Sermon' follow up this contrast to its
   underlying ideas as regards: First, the right relationship between man
   and God, or true righteousness - what inward graces characterise and
   what prospects attach to it, in opposition to Jewish views of merit and
   of reward. Secondly, we would mark the same contrast as regards sin
   (hamartology), temptation, &c. Thirdly, we would note it, as regards
   salvation (soteriology); and, lastly, as regards what may be termed
   moral theology: personal feelings, married and other relations,
   discipleship, and the like. And in this great contrast two points would
   prominently stand out: New Testament humility, as opposed to Jewish
   (the latter being really pride, as only the consciousness of failure,
   or rather, of inadequate perfectness, while New Testament humility is
   really despair of self); and again, Jewish as opposed to New Testament
   perfectness (the former being an attempt by means external or internal
   to strive up to God: the latter a new life, springing from God, and in
   God). Or, lastly, we might view it as upward teaching in regard to God:
   the King; inward teaching in regard to man: the subjects of the King;
   and outward teaching in regard to the Church and the world: the
   boundaries of the Kingdom.

   This brings us to what alone we can here attempt: a general outline of
   the Sermon on the Mount.' Its great subject is neither righteousness,
   nor yet the New Law (if such designation be proper in regard to what in
   no real sense is a Law), but that which was innermost and uppermost in
   the Mind of Christ - the Kingdom of God. Notably, the Sermon on the
   Mount contains not any detailed or systematic doctrinal, [2507] nor any
   ritual teaching, nor yet does it prescribe the form of any outward
   observances. This marks, at least negatively, a difference in principle
   from all other teaching. Christ came to found a Kingdom, not a School;
   to institute a fellowship, not to propound a system. To the first
   disciples all doctrinal teaching sprang out of fellowship with Him.
   They saw Him, and therefore believed; they believed, and therefore
   learned the truths connected with Him, and springing out of Him. So to
   speak, the seed of truth which fell on their hearts was carried thither
   from the flower of His Person and Life.

   Again, as from this point of view the Sermon on the Mount differs from
   all contemporary Jewish teaching, so also is it impossible to compare
   it with any other system of morality. The difference here is one not of
   degree, nor even of kind, but of standpoint. It is indeed true, that
   the Words of Jesus, properly understood, marks the utmost limit of all
   possible moral conception. But this point does not come in question.
   Every moral system is a road by which, through self-denial, discipline,
   and effort, men seek to reach the goal. Christ begins with this goal,
   and places His disciples at once in the position to which all other
   teachers point as the end. They work up to the goal of becoming the
   children of the Kingdom;' He makes men such, freely, and of His grace:
   and this is the Kingdom. What the others labour for, He gives. They
   begin by demanding, He by bestowing: because he brings good tidings of
   forgiveness and mercy. Accordingly, in the real sense, there is neither
   new law nor moral system here, but entrance into a new life: Be ye
   therefore perfect, as your Father Which is in heaven is perfect.'

   But if the Sermon on the Mount contains not a new, nor, indeed, any
   system of morality, and addresses itself to a new condition of things,
   it follows that the promises attaching, for example, to the so-called
   Beatitudes' must not be regarded as the reward of the spiritual state
   with which they are respectively connected, nor yet as their result. It
   is not because a man is poor in spirit that his is the Kingdom of
   Heaven, in the sense that the one state will grow into the other, or be
   its result; still less is the one the reward of the other. [2508] The
   connecting link - so to speak, the theological copula between the
   state' and the promise - is in each case Christ Himself: because He
   stands between our present and our future, and has opened the Kingdom
   of Heaven to all believers.' Thus the promise represents the gift of
   grace by Christ in the new Kingdom, as adapted to each case.

   It is Christ, then, as the King, Who is here flinging open the gates of
   His Kingdom. To study it more closely: in the three chapters, under
   which the Sermon on the Mount is grouped in the first Gospel, [2509]
   the Kingdom of God is presented successively, progressively, and
   extensively. Let us trace this with the help of the text itself.

   In the first part of the Sermon on the Mount [2510] the Kingdom of God
   is delineated generally, first positively, and then negatively, marking
   especially how its righteousness goes deeper than the mere letter of
   even the Old Testament Law. It opens with ten Beatitudes, which are the
   New Testament counterpart to the Ten Commandments. These present to us,
   not the observance of the Law written on stone, but the realisation of
   that Law which, by the Spirit, is written on the fleshly tables of the
   heart. [2511]

   These Ten Commandments in the Old Covenant were preceded by a Prologue.
   [2512] The ten Beatitudes have, characteristically, not a Prologue but
   an Epilogue, [2513] which corresponds to the Old Testament Prologue.
   This closes the first section, of which the object was to present the
   Kingdom of God in its characteristic features. But here it was
   necessary, in order to mark the real continuity of the New Testament
   with the Old, to show the relation of the one to the other. And this is
   the object of verses 17 to 20, the last-mentioned verse forming at the
   same time a grand climax and transition to the criticism of the Old
   Testament-Law in its merely literal application, such as the Scribes
   and Pharisees made. [2514] For, taking even the letter of the Law,
   there is not only progression, but almost contrast, between the
   righteousness of the Kingdom and that set forth by the teachers of
   Israel. Accordingly, a detailed criticism of the Law now follows - and
   that not as interpreted and applied by tradition,' but in its barely
   literal meaning. In this part of the Sermon on the Mount' the careful
   reader will mark an analogy to Exod. xxi. and xxii.

   This closes the first part of the Sermon on the Mount.' The second part
   is contained in St. Matt. vi. In this the criticism of the Law is
   carried deeper. The question now is not as concerns the Law in its
   literality, but as to what constituted more than a mere observance of
   the outward commandments: piety, spirituality, sanctity. Three points
   here stood out specially - nay, stand out still, and in all ages. Hence
   this criticism was not only of special application to the Jews, but is
   universal, we might almost say, prophetic. These three high points are
   alms, prayer, and fasting - or, to put the latter more generally, the
   relation of the physical to the spiritual. These three are successively
   presented, negatively and positively. [2515] But even so, this would
   have been but the external aspect of them. The Kingdom of God carries
   all back to the grand underlying ideas. What were this or that mode of
   giving alms, unless the right idea be apprehended, of what constitutes
   riches, and where they should be sought? This is indicated in verses 19
   to 21. Again, as to prayer: what matters it if we avoid the externalism
   of the Pharisees, or even catch the right form as set forth in the
   Lord's Prayer,' unless we realise what underlies prayer? It is to lay
   our inner man wholly open to the light of God in genuine, earnest
   simplicity, to be quite shone through by Him. [2516] It is, moreover,
   absolute and undivided self-dedication to God. [2517] And in this lies
   its connection, alike with the spirit that prompts almsgiving, and with
   that which prompts real fasting. That which underlies all such fasting
   is a right view of the relation in which the body with its wants stands
   to God - the temporal to the spiritual. [2518] It is the spirit of
   prayer which must rule alike alms and fasting, and pervade them: the
   upward look and self-dedication to God, the seeking first after the
   Kingdom of God and His Righteousness, that man, and self, and life may
   be baptized in it. Such are the real alms, the real prayers, the real
   fasts of the Kingdom of God.

   If we have rightly apprehended the meaning of the two first parts of
   the Sermon on the Mount,' we cannot be at a loss to understand its
   third part, as set forth in the seventh chapter of St. Matthew's
   Gospel. Briefly, it is this, as addressed to His contemporaries, nay,
   with wider application to the men of all times: First, the Kingdom of
   God cannot be circumscribed, as you would do it. [2519] Secondly, it
   cannot be extended, as you would do it, by external means, [2520] but
   cometh to us from God, [2521] and is entered by personal determination
   and separation. [2522] Thirdly, it is not preached, as too often is
   attempted, when thoughts of it are merely of the external. [2523]
   Lastly, it is not manifested in life in the manner too common among
   religionists, but is very real, and true, and good in its effects.
   [2524] And this Kingdom, as received by each of us, is like a solid
   house on a solid foundation, which nothing from without can shake or
   destroy. [2525]

   The infinite contrast, just set forth, between the Kingdom as presented
   by the Christ and Jewish contemporary teaching is the more striking,
   that it was expressed in a form, and clothed in words with which all
   His hearers were familiar; indeed, in modes of expression current at
   the time. It is this which has misled so many in their quotations of
   Rabbinic parallels to the Sermon on the Mount.' They perceive outward
   similarity, and they straightway set it down to identity of spirit, not
   understanding that often those things are most unlike in the spirit of
   them, which are most like in their form. No part of the New Testament
   has had a larger array of Rabbinic parallels adduced than the Sermon on
   the Mount;' and this, as we might expect, because, in teaching
   addressed to His contemporaries, Jesus would naturally use the forms
   with which they were familiar. Many of these Rabbinic quotations are,
   however, entirely inapt, the similarity lying in an expression or turn
   of words. [2526] Occasionally, the misleading error goes even further,
   and that is quoted in illustration of Jesus' sayings which, either by
   itself or in the context, implies quite the opposite. A detailed
   analysis would lead too far, but a few specimens will sufficiently
   illustrate our meaning.

   To begin with the first Beatitude, to the poor in spirit, since theirs
   is the Kingdom of Heaven, this early Jewish saying [2527] is its very
   counterpart, marking not the optimism, but the pessimism of life: Ever
   be more and more lowly in spirit, since the expectancy of man is to
   become the food of worms.' Another contrast to Christ's promise of
   grace to the poor in spirit' is presented in this utterance of
   self-righteousness [2528] on the part of Rabbi Joshua, who compares the
   reward ({hebrew}) formerly given to him who brought one or another
   offering to the Temple with that of him who is of a lowly mind
   ({hebrew}), to whom it is reckoned as if he had brought all the
   sacrifices. To this the saying of the great Hillel [2529] seems exactly
   parallel: My humility is my greatness, and my greatness my humility,'
   which, be it observed, is elicited by a Rabbinic accommodation of Ps.
   cxiii., 5, 6: Who is exalted to sit, who humbleth himself to behold.'
   It is the omission on the part of modern writers of this explanatory
   addition, which has given the saying of Hillel even the faintest
   likeness to the first Beatitude.

   But even so, what of the promise of the Kingdom of Heaven?' What is the
   meaning which Rabbinism attaches to that phrase, and would it have
   entered the mind of a Rabbi to promise what he understood as the
   Kingdom to all men, Gentiles as well as Jews, who were poor in spirit?
   We recall here the fate of the Gentiles in Messianic days, and, to
   prevent misstatements, summarise the opening pages of the Talmudic
   tractate on Idolatry. [2530] At the beginning of the coming era of the
   Kingdom, God is represented as opening the Torah, and inviting all who
   had busied themselves with it to come for their reward. On this, nation
   by nation appears - first, the Romans, insisting that all the great
   things they had done were only done for the sake of Israel, in order
   that they might the better busy themselves with the Torah. Being
   harshly repulsed, the Persians next come forward with similar claims,
   encouraged by the fact that, unlike the Romans, they had not destroyed
   the Temple. But they also are in turn repelled. Then all the Gentile
   nations urge that the Law had not been offered to them, which is proved
   to be a vain contention, since God had actually offered it to them, but
   only Israel had accepted it. On this the nations reply by a peculiar
   Rabbinic explanation of Exod. xix. 17, according to which God is
   actually represented as having lifted Mount Sinai like a cask, and
   threatened to put it over Israel unless they accepted the Law. Israel's
   obedience, therefore, was not willing, but enforced. On this the
   Almighty proposes to judge the Gentiles by the Noachic commandments,
   although it is added, that, even had they observed them, these would
   have carried no reward. And, although it is a principle that even a
   heathen, if he studied the Law, was to be esteemed like the
   High-Priest, yet it is argued, with the most perverse logic, that the
   reward of heathens who observed the Law must be less than that of those
   who did so because the Law was given them, since the former acted from
   impulse, and not from obedience!

   Even thus far the contrast to the teaching of Jesus is tremendous. A
   few further extracts will finally point the difference between the
   largeness of Christ's World-Kingdom, and the narrowness of Judaism.
   Most painful as the exhibition of profanity and national conceit is, it
   is needful in order to refute what we must call the daring assertion,
   that the teaching of Jesus, or the Sermon on the Mount, had been
   derived from Jewish sources. At the same time it must carry to the
   mind, with almost irresistible force, the question whence, if not from
   God, Jesus had derived His teaching, or how else it came so to differ,
   not in detail, but in principle and direction, from that of all His
   contemporaries.

   In the Talmudic passages from which quotation has already been made, we
   further read that the Gentiles would enter into controversy with the
   Almighty about Israel. They would urge, that Israel had not observed
   the Law. On this the Almighty would propose Himself to bear witness for
   them. But the Gentiles would object, that a father could not give
   testimony for his son. Similarly, they would object to the proposed
   testimony of heaven and earth, since self-interest might compel them to
   be partial. For, according to Ps. 1xxvi. 8, the earth was afraid,'
   because, if Israel had not accepted the Law, it would have been
   destroyed, but it became still' when at Sinai they consented to it. On
   this the heathen would be silenced out of the mouth of their own
   witnesses, such as Nimrod, Laban, Potiphar, Nebuchadnezzar, &c. They
   would then ask, that the Law might be given them, and promise to
   observe it. Although this was now impossible, yet God would, in His
   mercy, try them by giving them the Feast of Tabernacles, as perhaps the
   easiest of all observances. But as they were in their tabernacles, God
   would cause the sun to shine forth in his strength, when they would
   forsake their tabernacles in great indignation, according to Ps. ii. 3.
   And it is in this manner that Rabbinism looked for the fulfilment of
   those words in Ps. ii. 4: He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh,
   the Lord shall have them in derision,' this being the only occasion on
   which God laughed! And if it were urged, that at the time of the
   Messiah all nations would become Jews, this was indeed true; but
   although they would adopt Jewish practices, they would apostatise in
   the war of Gog and Magog, when again Ps. ii. 4 would be realised: The
   Lord shall laugh at them.' And this is the teaching which some writers
   would compare with that of Christ! In view of such statements, we can
   only ask with astonishment: What fellowship of spirit can there be
   between Jewish teaching and the first Beatitude?

   It is the same sad self-righteousness and utter carnalness of view
   which underlies the other Rabbinic parallels to the Beatitudes,
   pointing to contrast rather than likeness. Thus the Rabbinic
   blessedness of mourning consists in this, that much misery here makes
   up for punishment hereafter. [2531] We scarcely wonder that no Rabbinic
   parallel can be found to the third Beatitude, unless we recall the
   contrast which assigns in Messianic days the possession of earth to
   Israel as a nation. Nor could we expect any parallel to the fourth
   Beatitude, to those who hunger and thirst after righteousness.
   Rabbinism would have quite a different idea of righteousness,'
   considered as good works,' and chiefly as almsgiving (designated as
   Tsedaqah, or righteousness). To such the most special reward is
   promised, and that ex opere operato. [2532] Similarly, Rabbinism speaks
   of the perfectly righteous ({hebrew}) and the perfectly unrighteous, or
   else of the righteous and unrighteous (according as the good or the
   evil might weigh heaviest in the scale); and, besides these, of a kind
   of middle state. But such a conception as that of hunger' and thirst'
   after righteousness would have no place in the system. And, that no
   doubt may obtain, this sentence may be quoted: He that says, I give
   this "Sela" as alms, in order that ({hebrew}) my sons may live, and
   that I may merit the world to come, behold, this is the perfectly
   righteous.' [2533] Along with such assertions of work-righteousness we
   have this principle often repeated, that all such merit attaches only
   to Israel, while the good works and mercy of the Gentiles are actually
   reckoned to them as sin, [2534] though it is only fair to add that one
   voice (that of Jochanan ben Zakkai) is raised in contradiction of such
   horrible teaching.

   It seems almost needless to prosecute this subject; yet it may be well
   to remark, that the same self-righteousness attaches to the quality of
   mercy, so highly prized among the Jews, and which is supposed not only
   to bring reward, [2535] but to atone for sins. [2536] [2537] With
   regard to purity of heart, there is, indeed, a discussion between the
   school of Shammai and that of Hillel - the former teaching that guilty
   thoughts constitute sin, while the latter expressly confines it to
   guilty deeds. [2538] The Beatitude attaching to peace-making has many
   analogies in Rabbinism; but the latter would never have connected the
   designation of children of God' with any but Israel. [2539] A similar
   remark applies to the use of the expression Kingdom of Heaven' in the
   next Beatitude.


   A more full comparison than has been made would almost require a
   separate treatise. One by one, as we place the sayings of the Rabbis by
   the side of those of Jesus in this Sermon on the Mount, we mark the
   same essential contrariety of spirit, whether as regards righteousness,
   sin, repentance, faith, the Kingdom, alms, prayer, or fasting. Only two
   points may be specially selected, because they are so frequently
   brought forward by writers as proof, that the sayings of Jesus did not
   rise above those of the chief Talmudic authorities. The first of these
   refers to the well-known words of our Lord: [2540] Therefore all things
   whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them:
   for this is the law and the prophets.' This is compared with the
   following Rabbinic parallel, [2541] in which the gentleness of Hillel
   is contrasted with the opposite disposition of Shammai. The latter is
   said to have harshly repelled an intending proselyte, who wished to be
   taught the whole Law while standing on one foot, while Hillel received
   him with this saying: What is hateful to thee, do not to another. This
   is the whole Law, all else is only its explanation.' But it will be
   noticed that the words in which the Law is thus summed up are really
   only a quotation from Tob. iv. 15, although their presentation as the
   substance of the Law is, of course, original. But apart from this, the
   merest beginner in logic must perceive, that there is a vast difference
   between this negative injunction, or the prohibition to do to others
   what is hateful to ourselves, and the positive direction to do unto
   others as we would have them do unto us. [2542] The one does not rise
   above the standpoint of the Law, being as yet far from that love which
   would lavish on others, the good we ourselves desire, while the
   Christian saying embodies the nearest approach to absolute love of
   which human nature is capable, making that the test of our conduct to
   others which we ourselves desire to possess. And, be it observed, the
   Lord does not put self-love as the principle of our conduct, but only
   as its ready test. Besides, the further explanation in St. Luke vi. 38
   should here be kept in view, as also what may be regarded as the
   explanatory additions in St. Matt. v. 42-48.

   The second instance, to which it seems desirable to advert, is the
   supposed similarity between petitions in the Lord's Prayer [2543] and
   Rabbinic prayers. Here, we may remark, at the outset, that both the
   spirit and the manner of prayer are presented by the Rabbis so
   externally, and with such details, as to make it quite different from
   prayer as our Lord taught His disciples. This appears from the Talmudic
   tractate specially devoted to that subject, [2544] where the exact
   position, the degree of inclination, and other trivialities, never
   referred to by Christ, are dwelt upon at length as of primary
   importance. [2545] Most painful, for example, is it [2546] to find this
   interpretation of Hezekiah's prayer, [2547] when the King is
   represented as appealing to the merit of his fathers, detailing their
   greatness in contrast to Rahab or the Shunammite, who yet had received
   a reward, and closing with this: Lord of the world, I have searched the
   248 members which Thou hast given me, and not found that I have
   provoked Thee to anger with any one of them, how much more then
   shouldest Thou on account of these prolong my life?' After this, it is
   scarcely necessary to point to the self-righteousness which, in this as
   in other respects, is the most painful characteristic of Rabbinism.
   That the warning against prayers at the corner of streets was taken
   from life, appears from the well-known anecdote [2548] concerning one,
   Rabbi Jannai, who was observed saying his prayers in the public streets
   of Sepphoris, and then advancing four cubits to make the so-called
   supplementary prayer. Again, a perusal of some of the recorded prayers
   of the Rabbis [2549] will show, how vastly different many of them were
   from the petitions which our Lord taught. Without insisting on this,
   nor on the circumstance that all recorded Talmudic prayers are of much
   later date than the time of Jesus, it may, at the same time, be freely
   admitted that here also the form, and sometimes even the spirit,
   approached closely to the words of our Lord. On the other hand, it
   would be folly to deny that the Lord's Prayer, in its sublime spirit,
   tendency, combination, and succession of petitions, is unique; and that
   such expressions in it as Our Father,' the Kingdom,' forgiveness,'
   temptation,' and others, represent in Rabbinism something entirely
   different from that which our Lord had in view. But, even so, such
   petitions as forgive us our debts,' could, as has been shown in a
   previous chapter, have no true parallel in Jewish theology. [2550]

   Further details would lead beyond our present scope. It must suffice to
   indicate that such sayings as St. Matt. v. 6, 15, 17, 25, 29, 31, 46,
   47; vi. 8, 12, 18, 22, 24, 32; vii. 8, 9, 10, 15, 17-19, 22, 23, have
   no parallel, in any real sense, in Jewish writings, whose teaching,
   indeed, often embodies opposite ideas. Here it may be interesting, by
   one instance, to show what kind of Messianic teaching would have
   interested a Rabbi. In a passage [2551] which describes the great
   danger of intercourse with Jewish Christians, as leading to heresy, a
   Rabbi is introduced, who, at Sepphoris, had met one of Jesus'
   disciples, named Jacob, a man of Kefr Sekanya,' reputed as working
   miraculous cures in the name of his Master. [2552] It is said, that at
   a later period the Rabbi suffered grievous persecution, in punishment
   for the delight he had taken in a comment on a certain passage of
   Scripture, which Jacob attributed to his Master. It need scarcely be
   said, that the whole story is a fabrication; indeed, the supposed
   Christian interpretation is not even fit to be reproduced; and we only
   mention the circumstance as indicating the contrast between what
   Talmudism would have delighted in hearing from its Messiah, and what
   Jesus spoke.

   But there are points of view which may be gained from Rabbinic
   writings, helpful to the understanding of the Sermon on the Mount,'
   although not of its spirit. Some of these may here be mentioned. Thus,
   when [2553] we read that not one jot or title shall pass from the Law,
   it is painfully interesting to find in the Talmud the following
   quotation and mistranslation of St. Matt. v. 17: I have come not to
   diminish from the Law of Moses, nor yet have I come to add to the Law
   of Moses.' [2554] [2555] But the Talmud here significantly omits the
   addition made by Christ, on which all depends: till all be fulfilled.'
   Jewish tradition mentions this very letter Yod as irremovable, [2556]
   adding, that if all men in the world were gathered together to abolish
   the least letter in the Law, they would not succeed. [2557] Not a
   letter could be removed from the Law [2558] - a saying illustrated by
   this curious conceit, that the Yod which was taken by God out of the
   name of Sarah (Sarai), was added to that of Hoshea, making him Joshua
   (Jehoshua). [2559] Similarly, [2560] the guilt of changing those little
   hooks (titles') which make the distinction between such Hebrew letters
   as {hebrew} and {hebrew}, {hebrew} and {hebrew}, {hebrew} and {hebrew},
   is declared so great, that, if such were done, the world would be
   destroyed. [2561] Again the thought about the danger of those who broke
   the least commandment is so frequently expressed in Jewish writings, as
   scarcely to need special quotation. Only, there it is put on the
   ground, that we know not what reward may attach to one or another
   commandment. The expression they of old,' [2562] quite corresponds to
   the Rabbinic appeal to those that had preceded, the Zeqenim or
   Rishonim. In regard to St. Matt. v. 22, we remember that the term
   brother' applied only to Jews, while the Rabbis used to designate the
   ignorant [2563] - or those who did not believe such exaggerations, as
   that in the future God would build up the gates of Jerusalem with gems
   thirty cubits high and broad - as Reyqa, [2564] with this additional
   remark, that on one such occasion the look of a Rabbi had immediately
   turned the unbeliever into a heap of bones!

   Again, the opprobrious term fool' was by no means of uncommon
   occurrence among the sages; [2565] and yet they themselves state, that
   to give an opprobrious by-name, or to put another openly to shame, was
   one of the three things which deserved Gehenna. [2566] To verse 26 the
   following is an instructive parallel: To one who had defrauded the
   custom-house, it was said: "Pay the duty." He said to them: "Take all
   that I have with me." But the tax-gatherer answered him, "Thinkest
   thou, we ask only this one payment of duty? Nay, rather, that duty be
   paid for all the times in which according to thy wont, thou hast
   defrauded the custom-house."' [2567] The mode of swearing mentioned in
   verse 35 was very frequently adopted, in order to avoid pronouncing the
   Divine Name. Accordingly, they swore by the Covenant, by the Service of
   the Temple, or by the Temple. But perhaps the usual mode of swearing,
   which is attributed even to the Almighty, is By thy life' ({hebrew}).
   Lastly, as regards our Lord's admonition, it is mentioned [2568] as
   characteristic of the pious, that their yea is yea,' and their nay
   nay.'

   Passing to St. Matt. vi., we remember, in regard to verse 2, that the
   boxes for charitable contributions in the Temple were trumpet-shaped,
   and we can understand the figurative allusion of Christ to
   demonstrative piety. [2569] The parallelisms in the language of the
   Lord's Prayer - at least so far as the wording, not the spirit, is
   concerned - have been frequently shown. If the closing doxology, Thine
   is the Kingdom, and the power, and the glory,' [2570] were genuine, it
   would correspond to the common Jewish ascription, from which, in all
   probability, it has been derived. In regard to verses 14 and 15,
   although there are many Jewish parallels concerning the need of
   forgiving those that have offended us, or else asking forgiveness, we
   know what meaning Rabbinism attached to the forgiveness of sins.
   Similarly, it is scarcely necessary to discuss the Jewish views
   concerning fasting. In regard to verses 25 and 34, we may remark this
   exact parallel: [2571] Every one who has a loaf in his basket, and
   says, What shall I eat to-morrow? is one of little faith.' But
   Christianity goes further than this. While the Rabbinic saying only
   forbids care when there is bread in the basket, our Lord would banish
   anxious care even if there were no bread in the basket. The expression
   in verse 34 seems to be a Rabbinic proverb. Thus, [2572] we read: Care
   not for the morrow, for ye know not what a day may bring forth. Perhaps
   he may not be on the morrow, and so have cared for a world that does
   not exist for him.' Only here, also, we mark that Christ significantly
   says not as the Rabbis, but, the morrow shall take thought for the
   things of itself.'

   In chapter vii., verse 2, the saying about having it measured to us
   with the same measure that we mete, occurs in precisely the same manner
   in the Talmud, [2573] and, indeed, seems to have been a proverbial
   expression. The illustration in verses 3 and 4, about the mote and the
   beam, appears thus in Rabbinic literature: [2574] I wonder if there is
   any one in this generation who would take reproof. If one said, Take
   the mote out of thine eye, he would answer, Take the beam from out
   thine own eye.' On which the additional question is raised, whether any
   one in that generation were capable of reproving. As it also occurs
   with only trifling variations in other passages, [2575] we conclude
   that this also was a proverbial expression. The same may be said of
   gathering grapes of thorns.' [2576] Similarly, the designation of
   pearls' (verse 6) for the valuable sayings of sages is common. To verse
   11 there is a realistic parallel, [2577] when it is related, that at a
   certain fast, on account of drought, a Rabbi admonished the people to
   good deeds, on which a man gave money to the woman from whom he had
   been divorced, because she was in want. This deed was made a plea in
   prayer by the Rabbi, that if such a man cared for his wife who no more
   belonged to him, how much more should the Almighty care for the
   descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Upon this, it is added, the
   rain descended plentifully. If difference, and even contrast of spirit,
   together with similarity of form, were to be further pointed out, we
   should find it in connection with verse 14, which speaks of the fewness
   of those saved, and also verse 26, which refers to the absolute need of
   doing, as evidence of sonship. We compare with this what the Talmud
   [2578] says of Rabbi Simeon ben Jochai, whose worthiness was so great,
   that during his whole lifetime no rainbow was needed to ensure immunity
   from a flood, and whose power was such that he could say to a valley:
   Be filled with gold dinars. The same Rabbi was wont to say: I have seen
   the children of the world to come, and they are few. If there are
   three, I and my son are of their number; if they are two, I and my son
   are they.' After such expression of boastful self-righteousness, so
   opposed to the passage in the Sermon on the Mount, of which it is
   supposed to be the parallel, we scarcely wonder to read that, if
   Abraham had redeemed all generations to that of Rabbi Simon, the latter
   claimed to redeem by his own merits all that followed to the end of the
   world, nay, that if Abraham were reluctant, he (Simon) would take
   Ahijah the Shilonite with him, and reconcile the whole world! [2579]
   Yet we are asked by some to see in such Rabbinic passages parallels to
   the sublime teaching of Christ!

   The Sermon on the Mount' closes with a parabolic illustration, which in
   similar form occurs in Rabbinic writings. Thus, [2580] the man whose
   wisdom exceeds his works is compared to a tree whose branches are many,
   but its roots few, and which is thus easily upturned by the wind; while
   he whose works exceed his wisdom is likened to a tree, whose branches
   are few, and its roots many, against which all the winds in the world
   would strive in vain. A sill more close parallel is that [2581] in
   which the man who has good works, and learns much in the Law, is
   likened to one, who in building his house lays stones first, and on
   them bricks, so that when the flood cometh the house is not destroyed;
   while he who has not good work, yet busies himself much with the Law,
   is like one who puts bricks below, and stones above which are swept
   away by the waters. Or else the former is like one who puts mortar
   between the bricks, fastening them one to the other; and the other to
   one who merely puts mortar outside, which the rain dissolves and washes
   away.

   The above comparisons of Rabbinic sayings with those of our Lord lay no
   claim to completeness. They will, however, suffice to explain and amply
   to vindicate the account of the impression left on the hearers of
   Jesus. But what, even more than all else, must have filled them with
   wonderment and awe was, that He Who so taught also claimed to be the
   God-appointed final Judge of all, whose fate would be decided not
   merely by professed discipleship, but by their real relation to Him
   (St. Matt. vii. 21-23). And so we can understand it, that, alike in
   regard to what He taught and what He claimed, The people were
   astonished at His doctrine: for He taught them as One having authority
   - and not as the Scribes.' [2582]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [2499] As it was impossible to quote separately the different verses in
   the Sermon on the Mount, the reader is requested to have the Bible
   before him, so as to compare the verses referred to with their
   commentation in this chapter.

   [2500] St. Luke vi. 13.

   [2501] It is so that we group together St. Luke vi. 12, 13, 17-19,
   compared with St. Mark iii. 13-15 and St. Matthew v. 1, 2.

   [2502] According to traditional view this mountain was the so-called
   Karn Hattin' (Horns of Hattin) on the road from Tiberias to Nazareth,
   about 1½ hours to the north-west of Tiberias. But the tradition dates
   only from late Crusading times, and the locality is, for many reasons,
   unsuitable.

   [2503] St. Luke vi.

   [2504] The reader will find these parallelisms in Dean Plumptre's Notes
   on St. Matthew v. 1 (in Bishop Ellicott's Commentary for English
   Readers, vol. i. of the N.T. p. 20).

   [2505] Comp. Euseb. H. Eccl. iii. 39.

   [2506] Thus St. Matthew passes over those earlier events in the
   Gospel-history of which Judæa was the scene, and even over the visits
   of Jesus to Jerusalem previous to the last Passover, while he devotes
   not less than fourteen chapters and a half to the half-year's activity
   in Galilee. If St. John's is the Judæan, St. Matthew's is the Galilean
   Gospel.

   [2507] On this point there seems to me some confusion of language on
   the part of controversialists. Those who maintain that the Sermon on
   the Mount contains no doctrinal elements at all must mean systematic
   teaching - what are commonly called dogmas - since, besides St. Matt.
   vii. 22, 23, as Professor Wace has so well urged, love to God and to
   our neighbour mark both the starting-point and the final outcome of all
   theology.

   [2508] To adopt the language of St. Thomas Aquinas - it is neither
   meritum ex congruo, nor yet is it ex condigno. The Reformers fully
   showed not only the error of Romanism in this respect, but the
   untenableness of the theological distinction.

   [2509] chs. v.-vii.

   [2510] St. Matt. v.

   [2511] St. Matt. v. 3-12.

   [2512] Ex. xix. 3-6.

   [2513] St. Matt. v. 13-16.

   [2514] vv. 21 to end of ch. v.

   [2515] Alms, vi. 1-4; Prayer, vv. 5-15; Fasting, 16-18.

   [2516] vv. 22, 23.

   [2517] vv. 22-24.

   [2518] vv. 25 to end of ch. vi.

   [2519] vii. 1-5.

   [2520] ver. 6.

   [2521] vv. 7-12.

   [2522] vv. 13, 14.

   [2523] vv. 15, 16.

   [2524] vv. 17-20.

   [2525] vv. 24-27.

   [2526] So in the quotations of many writers on the subject, notably
   those of Wünsche.

   [2527] Ab. iv. 4.

   [2528] Sanh. 43 b.

   [2529] Vayyik. R. 1, ed. Warsh. p. 2 b.

   [2530] Abhodah Zarah.

   [2531] Erub. 41 b.

   [2532] Baba B. 10 a.

   [2533] Baba B. 10 b; comp. Pes. 8 a; Rosh haSh. 4 a.

   [2534] B. Bath. u. s.

   [2535] B. Bath. 9 b.

   [2536] Chag. 27 a.

   [2537] In Jer. B. Kamma 6 c, we have this saying in the name of R.
   Gamaliel, and therefore near Christian times: Whensoever thou hast
   mercy, God will have mercy upon thee; if thou hast not mercy, neither
   will God have mercy upon thee;' to which, however, this saying of Rab
   must be put as a pendent, that if a man has in vain sought forgiveness
   from his neighbour, he is to get a whole row of men to try to assuage
   his wrath, to which Job xxxiii. 28 applies; the exception, however,
   being, according to R. Jose, that if one had brought an evil name upon
   his neighbour, he would never obtain forgiveness. See also Shabb. 151
   b.

   [2538] B. Mez. 43 b and 44 a; comp also Kidd. 42 b.

   [2539] Ab. iii 14.

   [2540] St. Matt. vii. 12.

   [2541] Shabb. 31 a.

   [2542] As already stated, it occurs in this negative and unspiritual
   form in Tob. iv. 15, and is also so quoted in the lately published
   Didach tn ddeka postlon (ed. Bryennios) ch. i. It occurs in the same
   form in Clem. Strom. ii. c. 23.

   [2543] St. Matt. vi. 9-13.

   [2544] Berakhoth.

   [2545] Ber. 34 a b; 32 a; 58 b.

   [2546] Jer. Ber. 8 b.

   [2547] Is. xxxviii. 2. Beautiful prayers in Ber. 16 b, 17 a; but most
   painful instances very frequently occur in the Midrashim, such as in
   Shem. R. 43.

   [2548] Jer. Ber. 8 c.

   [2549] Ber. 29 b.

   [2550] For some interesting Rabbinic parallels to the Lord's Prayer,
   see Dr. Taylor's learned edition of the Sayings of the Jewish Fathers,'
   Excursus V. (pp. 138-145). The reader will also find much to interest
   him in Excursus IV.

   [2551] Abhod. Zar. 17 a and 27 b.

   [2552] Comp. the more full account of this Jacob's proposal to heal
   Eleazar ben Dama when bitten of a serpent in Jer. Shabb. xiv. end. Kefr
   Sekanya seems to have been the same as Kefr Simai, between Sepphoris
   and Acco (comp. Neubauer, Geogr. p. 234.)

   [2553] In St. Matt. v. 18.

   [2554] Shabb. 116 b.

   [2555] Delitzsch accepts a different reading, which furnishes this
   meaning, but I am come to add.' The passage occurs in a very curious
   connection, and for the purpose of showing the utter dishonesty of
   Christians - a Christian philosopher first arguing from interested
   motives, that since the dispersion of the Jews the Law of Moses was
   abrogated, and a new Law given; and the next day, having received a
   larger bribe, reversing his decision, and appealing to this rendering
   of St. Matt. v. 17.

   [2556] Jer. Sanh. p. 20 c.

   [2557] Shir. haSh. R. on ch. v. 11, ed. Warsh. p. 27 a.

   [2558] Shem. R. 6.

   [2559] Sanh. 107 a, and other passages.

   [2560] In Vayyik. R. 19.

   [2561] The following are mentioned as instances: the change of {hebrew}
   into {hebrew} in Deut. vi. 4; of {hebrew} into {hebrew} in Exod. xxxiv.
   14; of {hebrew} into {hebrew} Lev. xxii. 32; of {hebrew} into {hebrew}
   first verse of Ps. cl.; of {hebrew} into {hebrew} in Jer. v. 12;
   {hebrew} into {hebrew} 1 Sam. ii. 2. It ought to be marked, that
   Wünsche's quotations of these passages (Bibl. Rabb. on Shir haSh. R. v.
   11) are not always correct.

   [2562] St. Matt. v. 21.

   [2563] B. Kamma 50 b.

   [2564] Sanh. 100 a.

   [2565] Sotah iii. 4; Shabb. 13 b.

   [2566] Bab. Mez. 58 b, at bottom.

   [2567] Pesiqt. ed. Bub. 164 a.

   [2568] In the Midrash on Ruth iii. 18.

   [2569] See The Temple. its Ministry and Services,' &c., pp. 26, 27.

   [2570] ver. 13.

   [2571] In Sot. 48 b.

   [2572] Sanh. 100 b.

   [2573] Sot. i. 7.

   [2574] Arach. 16 b.

   [2575] B. Bath. 15 b; Bekhor. 38 b; Yalk. on Ruth.

   [2576] Pes. 49 a.

   [2577] In Ber. R 33.

   [2578] Jer. Ber. 13 d, towards the end.

   [2579] In Sukk. 45 b he proposes to conjoin with himself his son,
   instead of Abraham.

   [2580] In Ab. iii. 17.

   [2581] Ab. de R. Nath. 24.

   [2582] I had collected a large number of supposed or real Rabbinic
   parallels to the Sermon on the Mount.' But as they would have occupied
   by far too large a space, I have been obliged to omit all but such as
   would illustrate the fundamental position taken in this chapter, and,
   indeed, in this book: the contrariety of spirit, by the side of
   similarity of form and expressions, between the teaching of Jesus and
   that of Rabbinism.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XIX.
THE RETURN TO CAPERNAUM - HEALING OF THE CENTURION'S SERVANT.

   (St. Matt. viii. 1, 5-15; St. Mark iii. 20, 21; St. Luke vii. 1-10.)

   We are once again in Capernaum. It is remarkable how much, connected
   not only with the Ministry of Jesus, but with His innermost Life,
   gathers around that little fishing town. In all probability its
   prosperity was chiefly due to the neighbouring Tiberias, which Herod
   Antipas [2583] had built, about ten years previously. Noteworthy is it
   also, how many of the most attractive characters and incidents in the
   Gospel-history are connected with that Capernaum, which, as a city,
   rejected its own real glory, and, like Israel, and for the same reason,
   at last incurred a prophetic doom commensurate to its former
   privileges. [2584]

   But as yet Capernaum was still exalted up to heaven.' Here was the home
   of that believing Court-official, whose child Jesus had healed. [2585]
   Here also was the household of Peter; and here the paralytic had found,
   together with forgiveness of his sins, health of body. Its streets,
   with their outlook on the deep blue Lake, had been thronged by eager
   multitudes in search of life to body and soul. Here Matthew-Levi had
   heard and followed the call of Jesus; and here the good Centurion had
   in stillness learned to love Israel, and serve Israel's King, and built
   with no niggard hand that Synagogue, most splendid of those yet exhumed
   in Galilee, which had been consecrated by the Presence and Teaching of
   Jesus, and by prayers, of which the conversion of Jairus, its chief
   ruler, seems the blessed answer. And now, from the Mount of Beatitudes,
   it was again to His temporary home at Capernaum that Jesus retired.
   [2586] Yet not either to solitude or to rest. For, of that multitude
   which had hung entranced on His Words many followed Him, and there was
   now such constant pressure around Him, that, in the zeal of their
   attendance upon the wants and demands of those who hungered after the
   Bread of Life, alike Master and disciples found not leisure so much as
   for the necessary sustenance of the body.

   The circumstances, the incessant work, and the all-consuming zeal which
   even His friends' could but ill understand, led to the apprehension -
   the like of which is so often entertained by well-meaning persons in
   all ages, in their practical ignorance of the all-engrossing but also
   sustaining character of engagements about the Kingdom - that the
   balance of judgment might be overweighted, and high reason brought into
   bondage to the poverty of our earthly frame. In its briefness, the
   account of what these friends,' or rather those from Him' - His home -
   said and did, is most pictorial. On tidings reaching them, [2587] with
   reiterated, growing, and perhaps Orientally exaggerating details, they
   hastened out of their house in a neighbouring street [2588] to take
   possession of Him, as if He had needed their charge. It is not
   necessary to include the Mother of Jesus in the number of those who
   actually went. Indeed, the later express mention of His Mother and
   brethren' [2589] seems rather opposed to the supposition. Still less
   does the objection deserve serious refutation, [2590] that any such
   procedure, assumedly, on the part of the Virgin-Mother, would be
   incompatible with the history of Jesus' Nativity. For, all must have
   felt, that the zeal' of God's House was, literally, consuming' Him, and
   the other view of it, that it was setting on fire, not the physical,
   but the psychical framework of His humiliation, seems in no way
   inconsistent with what loftiest, though as yet dim, thought had come to
   the Virgin about her Divine Son. On the other hand, this idea, that He
   was beside Himself,' afforded the only explanation of what otherwise
   would have been to them well-nigh inexplicable. To the Eastern mind
   especially this want of self-possession, the being beside' oneself,
   would point to possession by another - God or Devil. It was on the
   ground of such supposition that the charge was so constantly raised by
   the Scribes, and unthinkingly taken up by the people, that Jesus was
   mad, and had a devil: not a demoniacal possession, be it marked, but
   possession by the Devil, in the absence of self-possessedness. And
   hence our Lord characterised this charge as really blasphemy against
   the Holy Ghost. And this also explains how, while unable to deny the
   reality of His Works, they could still resist their evidential force.

   However that incident may for the present have ended, it could have
   caused but brief interruption to His Work. Presently there came the
   summons of the heathen Centurion and the healing of His servant, which
   both St. Matthew and St. Luke record, as specially bearing on the
   progressive unfolding of Christ's Mission. Notably - these two
   Evangelists; and notably - with variations due to the peculiar
   standpoint of their narratives. No really serious difficulties will be
   encountered in trying to harmonise the details of these two narratives;
   that is, if any one should attach importance to such precise harmony.
   At any rate, we cannot fail to perceive the reason of these variations.
   Meyer regards the account of St. Luke as the original, Keim that of St.
   Matthew - both on subjective rather than historical grounds. [2591] But
   we may as well note, that the circumstance, that the event is passed
   over by St. Mark, militates against the favourite modern theory of the
   Gospels being derived from an original tradition (what is called the
   original Mark,' Ur-Marcus). [2592]

   If we keep in view the historical object of St. Matthew, as primarily
   addressing himself to Jewish, while St. Luke wrote more especially for
   Gentile readers, we arrive, at least, at one remarkable outcome of the
   variations in their narratives. Strange to say, the Judæan Gospel gives
   the pro-Gentile, the Gentile narrative the pro-Jewish, presentation of
   the event. Thus, in St. Matthew the history is throughout sketched as
   personal and direct dealing with the heathen Centurion on the part of
   Christ, while in the Gentile narrative of St. Luke the dealing with the
   heathen is throughout indirect, by the intervention of Jews, and on the
   ground of the Centurion's spiritual sympathy with Israel. Again, St.
   Matthew quotes the saying of the Lord which holds out to the faith of
   Gentiles a blessed equality with Israel in the great hope of the
   future, while it puts aside the mere claim of Israel after the flesh,
   and dooms Israel to certain judgment. On the other hand, St. Luke omits
   all this. A strange inversion it might seem, that the Judæan Gospel
   should contain what the Gentile account omits, except for this, that
   St. Matthew argues with his countrymen the real standing of the
   Gentiles, while St. Luke pleads with the Gentiles for sympathy and love
   with Jewish modes of thinking. The one is not only an exposition, but a
   justification, of the event as against Israel; the other an Eirenicon,
   as well as a touching representation of the plea of the younger with
   his elder brother at the door of the Father's House.

   But the fundamental truth in both accounts is the same; nor is it just
   to say that in the narrative the Gentiles are preferred before Israel.
   So far from this, their faith is only put on an equality with that of
   believing Israel. It is not Israel, but Israel's fleshly claims and
   unbelief, that are rejected; and Gentile faith occupies, not a new
   position outside Israel, but shares with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob the
   fulfilment of the promise made to their faith. Thus we have here the
   widest Jewish universalism, the true interpretation of Israel's hope;
   and this, even by the admission of our opponents, [2593] not as a later
   addition, but as forming part of Christ's original teaching. But if so,
   it revives, only in accentuated manner, the question: Whence this
   essential difference between the teaching of Christ on this subject,
   and that of contemporary Rabbinism.

   Yet another point may be gained from the admissions of negative
   criticism, at least on the part of its more thoughtful representatives.
   Keim is obliged to acknowledge the authenticity of the narrative. It is
   immaterial here which recension' of it may be regarded as the original.
   The Christ did say what the Gospels represent! But Strauss has shown,
   that in such case any natural or semi-natural explanation of the
   healing is impossible. Accordingly, the Trilemma' left is: either
   Christ was really what the Gospels represent Him, or He was a daring
   enthusiast, or (saddest of all) He must be regarded as a conscious
   impostor. If either of the two last alternatives were adopted, it
   would, in the first instance, be necessary to point out some ground for
   the claim of such power on the part of Jesus. What could have prompted
   Him to do so? Old Testament precedent there was none; certainly not in
   the cure of Naaman by Elisha. [2594] And Rabbinic parallelism there was
   none. For, although a sudden cure, and at a distance, is related in
   connection with a Rabbi, [2595] all the circumstances are absolutely
   different. In the Jewish story recourse was, indeed, had to a Rabbi;
   but for prayer that the sick might be healed of God, not for actual
   healing by the Rabbi. Having prayed, the Rabbi informed the messengers
   who had come to implore his help, that the fever had left the sick. But
   when asked by them whether he claimed to be a prophet, he expressly
   repudiated any prophetic knowledge, far more any supernatural power of
   healing, and explained that liberty in prayer always indicated to him
   that his prayer had been answered. All analogy thus failing, the only
   explanation left to negative criticism, in view of the admitted
   authenticity of the narrative, is, that the cure was the result of the
   psychical influence of the Centurion's faith and of that of his
   servant. But what, in that case, of the words which Jesus admittedly
   spoke? Can we, as some would have it, rationally account for their use
   by the circumstance that Jesus had had experience of such psychical
   influences on disease? or that Christ's words were, so to speak, only
   an affirmation of the Centurion's faith - something between a
   benedictory wish' and an act? Surely, suggestions like these carry
   their own refutation.

   Apart, then, from explanations which have been shown untenable, what is
   the impression left on our minds of an event, the record of which is
   admitted to be authentic? The heathen Centurion is a real historical
   personage. He was captain of the troop quartered in Capernaum, and in
   the service of Herod Antipas. We know that such troops were chiefly
   recruited from Samaritans and Gentiles of Cæsarea. [2596] Nor is there
   the slightest evidence that this Centurion was a proselyte of
   righteousness.' The accounts both in St. Matthew and in St. Luke are
   incompatible with this idea. A proselyte of righteousness' could have
   had no reason for not approaching Christ directly, nor would he have
   spoken of himself as unfit' that Christ should come under his roof. But
   such language quite accorded with Jewish notions of a Gentile, since
   the houses of Gentiles were considered as defiled, and as defiling
   those who entered them. [2597] On the other hand, the proselytes of
   righteousness' were in all respects equal to Jews, so that the words of
   Christ concerning Jews and Gentiles, as reported by St. Matthew, would
   not have been applicable to them. The Centurion was simply one who had
   learned to love Israel and to reverence Israel's God; one who, not only
   in his official position, but from love and reverence, had built that
   Synagogue, of which, strangely enough, now after eighteen centuries,
   the remains, [2598] in their rich and elaborate carvings of cornices
   and entablatures, of capitals and niches, show with what liberal hand
   he had dealt his votive offerings.

   We know too little of the history of the man, to judge what earlier
   impulses had led him to such reverence for Israel's God. There might
   have been something to incline him towards it in his early upbringing,
   perhaps in Cæsarea; or in his family relationships; perhaps in that
   very servant (possibly a Jew) whose implicit obedience to his master
   seems in part to have led him up to faith in analogous submission of
   all things to the behests of Christ. [2599] The circumstances, the
   times, the place, the very position of the man, make such suppositions
   rational, event suggested them. In that case, his whole bearing would
   be consistent with itself, and with what we know of the views and
   feelings of the time. In the place where the son of his fellow official
   at the Court of Herod had been healed by the Word of Jesus, spoken at a
   distance, [2600] in the Capernaum which was the home of Jesus and the
   scene of so many miracles, it was only what we might expect, that in
   such case he should turn to Jesus and ask His help. Quiet consistent
   with his character is the straightforwardness of his expectancy,
   characteristically illustrated by his military experience - what Bengel
   designates as the wisdom of his faith beautifully shining out in the
   bluffness of the soldier. When he had learned to own Israel's God, and
   to believe in the absolute unlimited power of Jesus, no such
   difficulties would come to him, nor, assuredly, such cavils rise, as in
   the minds of the Scribes, or even of the Jewish laity. Nor is it even
   necessary to suppose that, in his unlimited faith in Jesus, the
   Centurion had distinct apprehension of His essential Divinity. In
   general, it holds true, that, throughout the Evangelic history, belief
   in the Divinity of our Lord was the outcome of experience of His Person
   and Work, not the condition and postulate of it, as is the case since
   the Pentecostal descent of the Holy Ghost and His indwelling in the
   Church.

   In view of these facts, the question with the Centurion would be: not,
   Could Jesus heal his servant, but, Would He do so? And again, this
   other specifically: Since, so far as he knew, no application from any
   in Israel, be it even publican or sinner, had been doomed to
   disappointment, would he, as a Gentile, be barred from share in this
   blessing? was he unworthy,' or, rather, unfit' for it? Thus this
   history presents a crucial question, not only as regarded the character
   of Christ's work, but the relation to it of the Gentile world. Quiet
   consist with this - nay, its necessary outcome - were the scruples of
   the Centurion to make direct, personal application to Jesus. In measure
   as he reverenced Jesus, would these scruples, from his own standpoint,
   increase. As the houses of Gentiles were unclean,' [2601] entrance into
   them, and still more familiar fellowship, would defile.' The Centurion
   must have known this; and the higher he placed Jesus on the pinnacle of
   Judaism, the more natural was it for him to communicate with Christ
   through the elders of the Jews, and not to expect the Personal Presence
   of the Master, even if the application to him were attended with
   success. And here it is important (for the criticism of this history)
   to mark that, alike in the view of the Centurion, and even in that of
   the Jewish elders who under-took his commission, Jesus as yet occupied
   the purely Jewish stand-point.

   Closely considered, whatever verbal differences, there is not any real
   discrepancy in this respect between the Judæan presentation of the
   event in St. Matthew and the fuller Gentile account of it by St. Luke.
   From both narratives we are led to infer that the house of the
   Centurion was not in Capernaum itself, but in its immediate
   neighbourhood, probably on the road to Tiberias. And so in St. Matt.
   viii. 7, we read the words of our Saviour when consenting: I, having
   come, will heal him;' just as in St. Luke's narrative a space of time
   intervenes, in which intimation is conveyed to the Centurion, when he
   sends friends' to arrest Christ's actual coming into his house. [2602]
   Nor does St. Matthew speak of any actual request on the part of the
   Centurion, even though at first sight his narrative seems to imply a
   personal appearance. [2603] The general statement beseeching Him' -
   although it is not added in what manner, with what words, nor for what
   special thing - must be explained by more detailed narrative of the
   embassy of Jewish Elders. [2604] There is another marked agreement in
   the seeming difference of the two accounts. In St. Luke's narrative,
   the second message of the Centurion embodies two different expressions,
   which our Authorised Version unfortunately renders by the same word. It
   should read: Trouble not Thyself, for I am not fit (Levitically
   speaking) that Thou shouldest enter under my roof;' Levitically, or
   Judaistically speaking, my house is not a fit place for Thy entrance;
   Wherefore neither did I judge myself worthy (spiritually, morally,
   religiously) [xosa, Pondus habens, ejusdem ponderis cum aliqo, pretio
   aequans] to come unto Thee.' Now, markedly, in St. Matthew's
   presentation of the same event to the Jews, this latter worthiness' is
   omitted, and we only have St. Luke's first term, fit' (kans): I am not
   fit that thou shouldest come under my roof,' my house is unfitting
   Thine entrance. This seems to bear out the reasons previously indicated
   for the characteristic peculiarities of the two narratives.

   But in their grand leading features the two narratives entirely agree.
   There is earnest supplication for his sick, seemingly dying servant.
   [2605] Again, the Centurion in the fullest sense believes in the power
   of Jesus to heal, in the same manner as he knows his own commands as an
   officer would be implicitly obeyed; for, surely, no thoughtful reader
   would seriously entertain the suggestion, that the military language of
   the Centurion only meant, that he regarded disease as caused by evil
   demons or noxious power who obeyed Jesus, as soldiers or servants do
   their officer or master. Such might have been the underlying Jewish
   view of the times; but the fact, that in this very thing Jesus
   contrasted the faith of the Gentile with that of Israel, indicates that
   the language in question must be taken in its obvious sense. But in his
   self-acknowledged unfitness' lay the real fitness' of this good soldier
   for membership with the true Israel; and his deep-felt unworthiness'
   the real worthiness' (the ejusdem ponderis) for the Kingdom' and its
   blessings. It was this utter disclaimer of all claim, outward or
   inward, which prompted that absoluteness of trust which deemed all
   things possible with Jesus, and marked the real faith of the true
   Israel. Here was one, who was in the state described in the first
   clauses of the Beatitudes,' and to whom came the promise of the second
   clauses; because Christ is the connecting link between the two, and
   because He consciously was such to the Centurion, and, indeed, the only
   possible connecting link between them.

   And so we mark it, in what must be regarded as the high-point in this
   history, so far as its teaching to us all, and therefore the reason of
   its record in the New Testament, is concerned: that participation in
   the blessedness of the kingdom is not connected with any outward
   relationship towards it, nor belongs to our inward consciousness in
   regard to it; but is granted by the King to that faith which in deepest
   simplicity realises, and holds fast by Him. And yet, although
   discarding every Jewish claim to them - or, it may be, in our days,
   everything that is merely outwardly Christian - these blessings are not
   outside, still less beyond, what was the hope of the Old Testament, nor
   in our days the expectancy of the Church, but are literally its
   fulfilment; the sitting down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob in the
   Kingdom of Heaven.' Higher than, and beyond this not even Christ's
   provision can take us.

   But for the fuller understanding of the words of Christ, the Jewish
   modes of thought, which He used in illustration, required to be briefly
   explained. It was common belief, that in the day of the Messiah
   redeemed Israel would be gathered to a great feast, together with the
   patriarchs and heroes of the Jewish faith. This notion, which was but a
   coarsely literal application of such prophetic figures as in Is. xxv.
   6, had perhaps yet another and deeper meaning. As each weekly Sabbath
   was to be honoured by a feast, in which the best which the family could
   procure was to be placed on the board, so would the world's great
   Sabbath be marked by a feast in which the Great Householder, Israel's
   King, would entertain His household and Guests. Into the painfully,
   and, from the notions of the times, grossly realistic description of
   this feast, [2606] it is needless here to enter. One thing, however,
   was clear: Gentiles could have no part in that feast. In fact, the
   shame and anger of these' foes on seeing the table spread' for this
   Jewish feast was among the points specially noticed as fulfilling the
   predictions of Ps. xxiii. 5. [2607] On this point, then, the words of
   Jesus in reference to the believing Centurion formed the most marked
   contrast to Jewish teaching.

   In another respect also we mark similar contrariety. When our Lord
   consigned the unbelieving to outer darkness, where there is weeping and
   gnashing of teeth,' he once more used Jewish language, only with
   opposite application of it. Gehinnom - of which the entrance, marked by
   ever ascending smoke, [2608] was in the valley of Hinnom, between two
   palm trees - lay beyond the mountains of darkness.' [2609] It was a
   place of darkness, [2610] to which in the day of the Lord, [2611] the
   Gentiles would be consigned. [2612] On the other hand, the merit of
   circumcision would in the day of the Messiah deliver Jewish sinners
   from Gehinnom. [2613] It seems a moot question, whether the expression
   outer darkness' [2614] [2615] may not have been intended to designate -
   besides the darkness outside the lighted house of the Father, and even
   beyond the darkness of Gehinnom - a place of hopeless, endless night.
   Associated with it is weeping [2616] and the gnashing of teeth.' In
   Rabbinic thought the former was connected with sorrow, [2617] the
   latter almost always anger [2618] - not, as generally supposed, with
   anguish.

   To complete our apprehension of the contrast between the views of the
   Jews and the teaching of Jesus, we must bear in mind that, as the
   Gentiles could not possibly share in the feast of the Messiah, so
   Israel had claim and title to it. To use Rabbinic terms, the former
   were children of Gehinnom,' but Israel children of the Kingdom,' [2619]
   or, in strictly Rabbinic language, royal children,' [2620] children of
   God,' of heaven,' [2621] children of the upper chamber' (the Aliyah)
   [2622] and of the world to come.' [2623] In fact, in their view, God
   had first sat down on His throne as King, when the hymn of deliverance
   (Ex. xv. 1) was raised by Israel - the people which took upon itself
   that yoke of the Law which all other nations of the world had rejected.
   [2624]

   Never, surely, could the Judaism of His hearers have received more rude
   shock than by this inversion of all their cherished beliefs. There was
   a feast of Messianic fellowship, a recognition on the part of the King
   of all His faithful subjects, a joyous festive gathering with the
   fathers of the faith. But this fellowship was not of outward, but of
   spiritual kinship. There were children of the Kingdom,' and there was
   an outer darkness' with its anguish and despair. But this childship was
   of the Kingdom, such as He had opened it to all believers; and that
   outer darkness theirs, who had only outward claims to present. And so
   this history of the believing Centurion is at the same time an
   application of the Sermon on the Mount' - in this also aptly following
   the order of its record - and a further carrying out of its teaching.
   Negatively, it differentiated the Kingdom from Israel; while,
   positively, it placed the hope of Israel, and fellowship with its
   promises, within reach of all faith, whether of Jew or Gentile. He Who
   taught such new and strange truth could never be called a mere reformer
   of Judaism. There cannot be reform,' where all the fundamental
   principles are different. Surely He was the Son of God, the Messiah of
   men, Who, in such surrounding, could so speak to Jew and Gentile of God
   and His Kingdom. And surely also, He, Who could so bring spiritual life
   to the dead, could have no difficulty by the same word, in the
   self-same hour,' to restore life and health to the servant of him,
   whose faith had inherited the Kingdom. The first grafted tree of
   heathendom that had so blossomed could not shake off unripe fruit. If
   the teaching of Christ was new and was true, so must His work have
   been. And in this lies the highest vindication of this miracle - that
   He is the Miracle.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [2583] For a discussion of the precise date of the building of
   Tiberias, see Schürer, Neutest. Zeitgesch. p. 234, note 2. For details,
   comp. Jos. Ant. xviii. 2. 3; 6. 2; xix. 8. 1; War ii. 9. 1; 21. 3, 6,
   9; Life 9, 12, 17, 66, and many other places.

   [2584] St. Luke x. 15.

   [2585] St. John iv.

   [2586] St. Mark iii. 19-21.

   [2587] I take this as the general meaning, although the interpretation
   which paraphrases the legon gr (they said,' ver. 21) as referring to
   the report which reached the o pa ato seems to me strained. Those who
   are curious will find all kinds of proposed interpretations collected
   in Meyer, ad loc.

   [2588] The idea that they were in Nazareth seems wholly unfounded.

   [2589] St. Mark iii. 31.

   [2590] Urged even by Meyer.

   [2591] The difficulties which Keim raises seem to me little deserving
   of serious treatment. Sometimes they rest on assumptions which, to say
   the least, are not grounded on evidence.

   [2592] Godet has some excellent remarks on this point.

   [2593] So notably Keim.

   [2594] The differences have been well marked by Keim.

   [2595] Ber. 34 b.

   [2596] Jos. Ant. xix. 9. 1, 2.

   [2597] Ohal xxviii. 7.

   [2598] Comp. Warren, Recovery of Jerusalem, p. 385 &c.

   [2599] St. Luke vii. 8, last clause.

   [2600] St. John iv. 46-53.

   [2601] Ohal xviii. 7.

   [2602] St. Luke vii. 6.

   [2603] St. Matt. viii. 5.

   [2604] Without the article; perhaps only some of them went on this
   errand of mercy.

   [2605] St. Matt. viii. 6, literally, my servant has been thrown down
   (by disease) in the house, paralytic.' The bbletai corresponds to the
   Hebrew {hebrew}. The same word is used in ver. 14, when Peter's
   mother-in-law is described as thrown down and fever-burning.'

   [2606] One might say that all the species of animals are put in
   requisition of this great feast: Leviathan (B. Bath. 75 a); Behemoth
   (Pirké d. R. Eliez. 11); the gigantic bird Bar Jochani (B. Bath. 73 b;
   Bekhor. 57 b, and other passages). Similar, fabulous fatted geese are
   mentioned - probably for that feast (B. Bath. 73 b). The wine there
   dispensed had been kept in the grapes from the creation of the world
   (Sanh. 99 a; Targum, on Cant. viii. 2); while there is difficulty as to
   who is worthy to return thanks, when at last the duty is undertaken by
   David, according to Ps. cxvi. 13 (Pes. 119 b).

   [2607] Bemid. R. 21, ed. Warsh. iv. p. 85 a 57 a.

   [2608] Erub. 19 a..

   [2609] Tamid 32 b.

   [2610] Targ. on 1 Sam. ii. 9, Ps lxxxviii. 12.

   [2611] Amos. v. 20.

   [2612] Yaklkut ii. p. 42 c.

   [2613] u. s. nine lines higher up.

   [2614] St. Matt. viii. 12.

   [2615] All commentators regard this as a contrast to the light in the
   palace, but so far as I know the Messianic feast is not described as
   taking place in a palace.

   [2616] The use of the article makes it emphatic - as Bengel has it: In
   hac vita dolor nondum est dolor.

   [2617] In Succ. 52 a it is said that in the age to come (Athid labho)
   God would bring out the Yetser haRa (evil impulse), and slaughter it
   before the just before the wicked. To the one he would appear like a
   great mountain, to the other like a small thread. Both would weep - the
   righteous for joy, that they had been able to subdue so great so great
   a mountain; the wicked for sorrow, that they had not been able even to
   break so small a thread.

   [2618] This is also the meaning of the expression in Ps. cxii. 10. The
   verb is used with this idea in Acts vii. 54, and in the LXX, Job. xvi.
   9; Ps. xxxv. 16; xxxvii. 12; and in Rabbinical writings, for example,
   Jer. Keth. 35 b; Shem. R. 5, &c.

   [2619] St. Matt. viii. 12.

   [2620] Shabb. xiv. 4.

   [2621] {hebrew} Ab. iii. 14 comp. Jer. Kidd. 61 c middle.

   [2622] Sanh. 97 b; Succ. 45 b.

   [2623] Jer. Ber. 13 d, end.

   [2624] Pesiqta 16 b; Shem. R. 23.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XX.
THE RAISING OF THE YOUNG MAN OF NAIN - THE MEETING OF LIFE AND DEATH.

   (St. Luke vii. 11-17.)

   THAT early spring-tide in Galilee was surely the truest realisation of
   the picture in the Song of Solomon, when earth clad herself in garments
   of beauty, and the air was melodious with songs of new life. [2625] It
   seemed as if each day marked a widening circle of deepest sympathy and
   largest power on the part of Jesus; as if each day also brought fresh
   surprise, new gladness; opened hitherto unthought-of possibilities, and
   pointed Israel far beyond the horizon of their narrow expectancy.
   Yesterday it was the sorrow of the heathen Centurion which woke an echo
   in the heart of the Supreme Commander of life and death; faith called
   out, owned, and placed on the high platform of Israel's worthies.
   To-day it is the same sorrow of a Jewish mother, which touches the
   heart of the Son of Mary, and appeals to where denial is unthinkable.
   In that Presence grief and death cannot continue. As the defilement of
   a heathen house could not attach to Him, Whose contact changed the
   Gentile stranger into a true Israelite, so could the touch of death not
   render unclean Him, Whose Presence vanquished and changed it into life.
   Jesus could not enter Nain, and its people pass Him to carry one dead
   to the burying.

   For our present purpose it matters little, whether it was the very day
   after' the healing of the Centurion's servant, or shortly afterwards,'
   [2626] that Jesus left Capernaum for Nain. Probably it was the morrow
   of that miracle, and the fact that much people,' or rather a great
   multitude,' followed Him, seems confirmatory of it. The way was long -
   as we reckon, more than twenty-five miles; but, even if it was all
   taken on foot, there could be no difficulty in reaching Nain ere the
   evening, when so often funerals took place. Various roads lead to, and
   from Nain; [2627] that which stretches to the Lake of Galilee and up to
   Capernaum is quite distinctly marked. It is difficult to understand,
   how most of those who have visited the spot could imagine the place,
   where Christ met the funeral procession, to have been the rock-hewn
   tombs to the west of Nain and towards Nazareth. [2628] For, from
   Capernaum the Lord would not have come that way, but approach it from
   the north-east by Endor. Hence there can be little doubt, that Canon
   Tristram correctly identifies the now unfenced burying-ground, about
   ten minutes' walk to the east of Nain, as that whither, on that spring
   afternoon, they were carrying the widow's son. [2629] On the path
   leading to it the Lord of Life for the first time burst open the gates
   of death.

   It is all desolate now. A few houses of mud and stone with low
   doorways, scattered among heaps of stones and traces of walls, is all
   that remains of what even these ruins show to have been once a city,
   with walls and gates. [2630] The rich gardens are no more, the fruit
   trees cut down, and there is a painful sense of desolation' about the
   place, as if the breath of judgment had swept over it. And yet even so
   we can understand its ancient name of Nain, the pleasant,' [2631] which
   the Rabbis regarded as fulfilling that part of the promise to Issachar:
   he saw the land that it was pleasant.' [2632] From the elevation on
   which the city stood we look northwards, across the wide plain, to
   wooded Tabor, and in the far distance to snow-capped Hermon. On the
   left (in the west) rise the hills beyond which Nazareth lies embosomed;
   to the right is Endor; southwards Shunem, and beyond it the Plain of
   Jezreel. By this path, from Endor, comes Jesus with His disciples and
   the great following multitude. Here, near by the city gate, on the road
   that leads eastwards to the old burying-ground, has this procession of
   the great multitude,' which accompanied the Prince of Life, met that
   other great multitude' that followed the dead to his burying. Which of
   the two shall give way to the other? We know what ancient Jewish usage
   would have demanded. For, of all the duties enjoined, none more
   strictly enforced by every consideration of humanity and piety, even by
   the example of God Himself, than that of comforting the mourners and
   showing respect to the dead by accompanying him to the burying. [2633]
   [2634] The popular idea, that the spirit of the dead hovered about the
   unburied remains, must have given intensity to such feelings.

   Putting aside later superstitions, so little has changed in the Jewish
   rites and observances about the dead, [2635] that from Talmudic and
   even earlier sources, [2636] we can form a vivid conception of what had
   taken place in Nain. The watchful anxiety; the vain use of such means
   as were known, or within reach of the widow; the deepening care, the
   passionate longing of the mother to retain her one treasure, her sole
   earthly hope and stay; then the gradual fading out of the light, the
   farewell, the terrible burst of sorrow: all these would be common
   features in any such picture. But here we have, besides, the Jewish
   thoughts of death and after death; knowledge just sufficient to make
   afraid, but not to give firm consolation, which would make even the
   most pious Rabbi uncertain of his future; [2637] and then the desolate
   thoughts connected in the Jewish mind with childlessness. We can
   realise it all: how Jewish ingenuity and wisdom would resort to
   remedies real or magical; how the neighbours would come in with
   reverent step, feeling as if the very Shekhinah were unseen at the head
   of the pallet in that humble home; [2638] how they would whisper
   sayings about submission, which, when realisation of God's love is
   wanting, seem only to stir the heart to rebellion against absolute
   power; and how they would resort to the prayers of those who were
   deemed pious in Nain. [2639]

   But all was in vain. And now the well-known blast of the horn has
   carried tidings, that once more the Angel of Death has done his dire
   behest. [2640] In passionate grief the mother has rent her upper
   garment. [2641] The last sad offices have been rendered to the dead.
   The body has been laid on the ground; hair and nails have been cut,
   [2642] and the body washed, anointed, and wrapped in the best the widow
   could procure; for, the ordinance which directed that the dead should
   be buried in wrappings' (Takhrikhin), or as they significantly called
   it, the provision for the journey' (Zevadatha), [2643] of the most
   inexpensive, linen, is of later date than our period. It is impossible
   to say, whether the later practice already prevailed, of covering the
   body with metal, glass, or salt, and laying it either upon earth or
   salt. [2644]

   And now the mother was left Oneneth (moaning, lamenting) - a term which
   distinguished the mourning before from that after burial. [2645] She
   would sit on the floor, neither eat meat, nor drink wine. What scanty
   meal she would take, must be without prayer, in the house of a
   neighbour, or in another room, or at least with her back to the dead.
   [2646] Pious friends would render neighbourly offices, or busy
   themselves about the near funeral. If it was deemed duty for the
   poorest Jew, on the death of his wife, to provide at least two flutes
   and one mourning woman, [2647] we may feel sure that the widowed mother
   had not neglected what, however incongruous or difficult to procure,
   might be regarded as the last tokens of affection. In all likelihood
   the custom obtained even then, though in modified form, to have funeral
   orations at the grave. For, even if charity provided for an unknown
   wayfarer the simplest funeral, mourning-women would be hired to chaunt
   in weird strains the lament: Alas, the lion! alas. the hero!' or
   similar words, [2648] while great Rabbis were wont to bespeak for
   themselves a warm funeral oration'  (Hesped, or Hespeda). [2649] For,
   from the funeral oration a man's fate in the other world might be
   inferred; [2650] and, indeed, the honour of a sage was in his funeral
   oration.' [2651] and in this sense the Talmud answers the question,
   whether a funeral oration is intended to honour the survivors or the
   dead. [2652]

   But in all this painful pageantry there was nothing for the heart of
   the widow, bereft of her only child. We can follow in spirit the
   mournful procession, as it started from the desolate home. As it
   issued, chairs and couches were reversed, and laid low. Outside, the
   funeral orator, if such was employed, preceded the bier, proclaiming
   the good deeds of the dead. [2653] Immediately before the dead came the
   women, this being peculiar to Galilee, [2654] the Midrash giving this
   reason of it, that woman had introduced death into the world. [2655]
   The body was not, as afterwards in preference, [2656] carried in an
   ordinary coffin of wood (Aron), if possible, cedarwood - on one
   occassion, at least, made with holes beneath; [2657] but laid on a
   bier, or in an open coffin (Mittah). In former times a distinction had
   been made in these biers between rich and poor. The former were carried
   on the so-called Dargash - as it were, in state - while the poor were
   conveyed in a receptacle made of wickerwork (Kelibha or Kelikhah),
   having sometimes at the foot what was termed a horn,' to which the body
   was made fast. [2658] But this distinction between rich and poor was
   abolished by Rabbinic ordinance, and both alike, if carried on a bier,
   were laid in that made of wickerwork. [2659] Commonly, though not in
   later practice, the face of the dead body was uncovered. [2660] The
   body lay with its face turned up, and his hands folded on the breast.
   We may add, that when a person had died unmarried or childless, it was
   customary to put into the coffin something distinctive of them, such as
   pen and ink, or a key. Over the coffins of bride or bridegroom a
   baldachino was carried. Sometimes the coffin was garlanded with myrtle.
   [2661] In exceptional cases we read of the use of incense, [2662] and
   even of a kind of libation. [2663]

   We cannot, then, be mistaken in supposing that the body of the widow's
   son was laid on the bed' (Mittah), or in the willow basket,' already
   described (Kelibha, from Kelubh). [2664] Nor can we doubt that the ends
   of handles were borne by friends and neighbours, different parties of
   bearers, all of them unshod, at frequent intervals relieving each
   other, so that as many as possible might share in the good work. [2665]
   During these pauses there was loud lamentation; but this custom was not
   observed in the burial of women. Behind the bier walked the relatives,
   friends, and then the sympathising multitude.' For it was deemed like
   mocking one's Creator not to follow the dead to his last resting-place,
   and to all such want of reverence Prov. xvii. 5 was applied. [2666] If
   one were absolutely prevented from joining the procession, although for
   its sake all work, even study, should be interrupted, reverence should
   at least be shown by rising up before the dead. [2667] And so they
   would go on to what the Hebrews beautifully designated as the house of
   assembly' or meeting,' the hostelry,' the place of rest,' or of
   freedom,' the field of weepers,' the house of eternity,' or of life.'

   We can now transport ourselves into that scene. Up from the city close
   by came this great multitude' that followed the dead, with
   lamentations, wild chaunts of mourning women, [2668] accompanied by
   flutes and the melancholy tinkle of cymbals, perhaps by trumpets,
   [2669] [2670] amidst expressions of general sympathy. Along the road
   from Endor streamed the great multitude which followed the Prince of
   Life.' Here they met: Life and Death. The connecting link between them
   was the deep sorrow of the widowed mother. He recognised her as she
   went before the bier, leading him to the grave whom she had brought
   into life. He recognised her, but she recognised Him not, had not even
   seen Him. She was still weeping; even after He had hastened a step or
   two in advance of His followers, quite close to her, she did not heed
   Him, and was still weeping. But, beholding her,' the Lord [2671] had
   compassion on her.' Those bitter, silent tears which blinded her eyes
   were strongest language of despair and utmost need, which never in vain
   appeals to His heart, Who has borne our sorrows. We remember, by way of
   contrast, the common formula used at funerals in Palestine, Weep with
   them, all ye who are bitter of heart!' [2672] It was not so that Jesus
   spoke to those around, nor to her, but characteristically: Be not
   weeping.' [2673] And what He said, that He wrought. He touched the bier
   - perhaps the very wicker basket in which the dead youth lay. He
   dreaded not the greatest of all defilements - that of contact with the
   dead, [2674] which Rabbinism, in its elaboration of the letter of the
   Law, had surrounded with endless terrors. His was other separation than
   of the Pharisees: not that of submission to ordinances, but of conquest
   of what made them necessary.

   And as He touched the bier, they who bore it stood still. They could
   not have anticipated what would follow. But the awe of the coming
   wonder - as it were, the shadow of the opening gates of life, had
   fallen on them. One word of sovereign command, and he that was dead sat
   up, and began to speak.' Not of that world of which he had had brief
   glimpse. For, as one who suddenly passes from dream-vision to waking,
   in the abruptness of the transition, loses what he had seen, so he, who
   from that dazzling brightness was hurried back to the dim light to
   which his vision had been accustomed. It must have seemed to him, as if
   he woke from long sleep. Where was he now? who those around him? what
   this strange assemblage? and Who He, Whose Light and Life seemed to
   fall upon him?

   And still was Jesus the link between the mother and the son, who had
   again found each other. And so, in the truest sense, He gave him [2675]
   to his mother.' Can any one doubt that mother and son henceforth owned,
   loved, and trusted Him as the true Messiah? If there was no moral
   motive for this miracle, outside Christ's sympathy with intense
   suffering and the bereavement of death, was there no moral result as
   the outcome of it? If mother and son had not called upon Him before the
   miracle, would they not henceforth and for ever call upon Him? And if
   there was, so to speak, inward necessity, that Life Incarnate should
   conquer death - symbolic and typic necessity of it also - was not
   everything here congruous to the central fact in this history? The
   simplicity and absence of all extravagant details; the Divine calmness
   and majesty on the part of the Christ, so different from the manner in
   which legend would have coloured the scene, even from the intense
   agitation which characterised the conduct of an Elijah, an Elisha, or a
   Peter, in somewhat similar circumstances; and, lastly, the beauteous
   harmony where all is in accord, from the first touch of compassion till
   when, forgetful of the bystanders, heedless of effect,' He gives the
   son back to his mother - are not all these worthy of the event, and
   evidential of the truth of the narrative?

   But, after all, may we regard this history as real - and, if so, what
   are its lessons? [2676] On one point, at least, all serious critics are
   now agreed. It is impossible to ascribe it to exaggeration, or to
   explain it on natural grounds. The only alternative is to regard it
   either as true, or as designedly false. Be it, moreover, remembered,
   that not only one Gospel, but all, relate some story of raising the
   dead - whether that of this youth, of Jairus' daughter, or of Lazarus.
   They also all relate the Resurrection of the Christ, which really
   underlies those other miracles. But if this history of the raising of
   the young man is false, what motive can be suggested for its invention,
   for motive there must have been for it? Assuredly, it was no part of
   Jewish expectancy concerning the Messiah, that He would perform such a
   miracle. And negative criticism has admitted, [2677] that the
   differences between this history and the raising of the dead by Elijajh
   or Elisha are so numerous and great, that these narratives cannot be
   regarded as suggesting that of the raising of the young man of Nain. We
   ask again: Whence, then, this history, if it was not true? It is an
   ingenious historical suggestion - rather an admission by negative
   criticism [2678] - that so insignificant, and otherwise unknown, a
   place as Nain would not have been fixed upon as the site of this
   miracle, if some great event had not occurred there which made lasting
   impression on the mind of the Church. What was that event, and does not
   the reading of this record carry conviction of its truth? Legends have
   not been so written. Once more, the miracle is described as having
   taken place, not in the seclusion of a chamber, nor before a few
   interested witnesses, but in sight of the great multitude which had
   followed Jesus, and of that other great multitude which came from Cana.
   In this twofold great multitude was there none, from whom the enemies
   of Christianity could have wrung contradiction, if the narrative was
   false? Still further, the history is told with such circumstantiality
   of details, as to be inconsistent with the theory of a later invention.
   Lastly, no one will question, that belief in the reality of such
   raising from the dead' was a primal article in the faith of the
   primitive Church, for which - as a fact, not a possibility - all were
   ready to offer up their lives. Nor should we forget that, in one of the
   earliest apologies addressed to the Roman Emperor, Quadratus appealed
   to the fact, that, of those who had been healed or raised from the dead
   by Christ, some were still alive, and all were well known. [2679] On
   the other hand, the only real ground for rejecting this narrative is
   disbelief in the Miraculous, including, of course, rejection of the
   Christ as the Miracle of Miracles. But is it not vicious reasoning in a
   circle, as well as begging the question, to reject the Miraculous
   because we discredit the Miraculous? and does not such rejection
   involve much more of the incredible than faith itself?

   And so, with all Christendom, we gladly take it, in simplicity of
   faith, as a true record by true men - all the more, that they who told
   it knew it to be so incredible, as not only to provoke scorn, [2680]
   but to expose them to the charge of cunningly devising fables. [2681]
   But they who believe, see in this history, how the Divine Conqueror, in
   His accidental meeting with Death, with mighty arm rolled back the
   tide, and how through the portals of heaven which He opened stole in
   upon our world the first beam of the new day. Yet another - in some
   sense lower, in another, practically higher - lesson do we learn. For,
   this meeting of the two processions outside the gate of Nain was
   accidental, yet not in the conventional sense. Neither the arrival of
   Jesus at that place and time, nor that of the funeral procession from
   Nain, nor their meeting, was either designed or else miraculous. Both
   happened in the natural course of natural events, but their concurrence
   [2682] (sunkura) was designed, and directly God-caused. In this
   God-caused, designed concurrence of events, in themselves ordinary and
   natural, lies the mystery of special Providences, which, to whomsoever
   they happen, he may and should regard them as miracles and answer to
   prayer. And this principle extends much farther: to the prayer for, and
   provision of, daily bread, nay, to mostly all things, so that, to those
   who have ears to hear, all things around speak in parables of the
   kingdom of Heaven.

   But on those who saw this miracle at Nain fell the fear [2683] of the
   felt Divine Presence, and over their souls swept the hymn of Divine
   praise: fear, because [2684] God had visited [2685] His people. And
   further and wider spread the wave - over Judæa, and beyond it, until it
   washed, and broke in faint murmur against the prison-walls, within
   which the Baptist awaited his martyrdom. Was He then the Coming One?'
   and, if so, why did, or how could, those walls keep His messenger
   within grasp of the tyrant? [2686]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [2625] Cant. ii. 11-13.

   [2626] This depends on whether we adopt the reading n t or n t xs.

   [2627] I cannot understand what Dean Stanley means, when he says (Sinai
   and Palest. p. 352): One entrance alone it could have had.' I have
   counted not fewer than six roads leading to Nain.

   [2628] So Dean Stanley, and even Captain Conder. Canon Farrar regards
   this as one of the certain sites.' But, even according to his own
   description of the route taken from Capernaum, it is difficult to
   understand how Jesus could have issued upon the rock-hewn tombs.

   [2629] Land of Israel,' pp. 129, 130.

   [2630] Captain Conder (Tent-Work in Pal. i. pp. 121, 122) has failed to
   discover traces of a wall. But see the description of Canon Tristram
   (Land of Isr. p. 129) which I have followed in my account.

   [2631] I cannot accept the rendering of Nain by pascuum.'

   [2632] Ber. R. 98, ed. Warsh. p. 175 b: {hebrew}.

   [2633] Ber. 18 a.

   [2634] For the sake of brevity I must here refer to Sketches of Jewish
   Social Life,' ch. x., and to the article in The Bible Educator,' vol.
   iv. pp. 330-333.

   [2635] Haneberg (Relig. Alterth. pp. 502, 503) gives the apt reasons
   for this.

   [2636] The Tractate Ebhel Rabbathi (Great Mourning') euphemistically
   called Massekheth Semachoth, Tractate of Joys,' It is already quoted in
   the Talmud: comp Zunz, Gottesd. Vortr. p. 90, note d. It is inserted in
   vol. ix. of the Bab. Talmud, pp. 28 a to 31 b.

   [2637] Ber. 28 b.

   [2638] Nedar. 40 a, lines 6 and 7 from bottom.

   [2639] Ber. v. 5.

   [2640] Moed K. 27 b.

   [2641] Jer. Moed. K. 83 d.

   [2642] Moed K. 8 b.

   [2643] Rosh haSh 17 a and other wise.

   [2644] Shabb. 151 b; Semach. I.

   [2645] The mourning up to the time of burial or during the first day
   was termed Aninah (widowed-mourning, moaning) Jer. Horay. 48 a. The
   following three, seven, or thirty days (as the case might be) were
   those of Ebhel, mourning.' Other forms of the same word need not be
   mentioned.

   [2646] Jer. Ber. 5 d.

   [2647] Kethub. iv. 4.

   [2648] Mass. Semach. i. 9.

   [2649] Of these a number of instances are given in the Talmud - though
   probably only of the prologue, or epilogue, or of the most striking
   thoughts.

   [2650] Shabb. 153 a.

   [2651] Moed K. 25 a.

   [2652] Sanh. 46 b.

   [2653] Shabb. 153 a.

   [2654] Shabb. 153 a.

   [2655] Ber. R. 17 end.

   [2656] Ber. 19 a.

   [2657] Jer. Kil 32 b; Ber. R. 100.

   [2658] Par. xii. 9.

   [2659] Moed K. 27 a and b.

   [2660] Semach. c. 8.

   [2661] Bez. 6 a Nidd. 37 a.

   [2662] Moed K. 27 b; Ber. 53 a.

   [2663] Jer. Sheq. ii. 7.

   [2664] It is evident the young man could not have been coffined,' or it
   would have been impossible for him to sit up at Christ's bidding. I
   must differ from the learned Delitzsch, who uses the word {hebrew} in
   translating sors. Very remarkable also it seems to me, that those who
   advocate wicker-basket interments are without knowing it, resorting to
   the old Jewish practice.

   [2665] Ber. iii. 1.

   [2666] Ber. 18 a.

   [2667] Jer. Sot. 17 b, end.

   [2668] Sometimes the lament was chaunted simply in chorus, at others
   one woman began and then the rest joined in chorus. The latter was
   distinctively termed the Qinah, see Moed K. iii. 9.

   [2669] Keth. 17 a; Moed K. 27 b.

   [2670] Apparently sometimes torches were used at funerals (Ber. 53 a).

   [2671] The term krios for the Lord' is peculiar to St. Luke and St.
   John - a significant conjunction. It occurs only once in St. Mark (xvi.
   19).

   [2672] Moed K. 8 a, lines 7 and 8 from bottom.

   [2673] So literally. We here recall the unfeeling threats by R. Huna of
   further bereavements to a mother who wept very much, and their
   fulfilment (Moed. K. 27 b).

   [2674] Kei. i.

   [2675] So literally - and very significantly.

   [2676] Minor difficulties may be readily dismissed. Such is the
   question, why this miracle has not been recorded by St. Matthew.
   Possibly St. Matthew may have remained a day behind in Capernaum. In
   any case, the omission cannot be of real importance as regards the
   question of the credibility of such a miracle, since similar miracles
   are related in all the four Gospels.

   [2677] So Keim, who finally arrives at the conclusion that the event is
   fictitious His account seems to me painfully unfair, as well as
   unsatisfactory in the extreme.

   [2678] This is the admission of Keim.

   [2679] Euseb. Hist. Eccl. iv. 3.

   [2680] Acts xvii. 32; xxvi. 8; 1 Cor. xv. 12-19.

   [2681] 2 Pet. i. 16.

   [2682] The term x sunkura x rendered in the A.V. chance' (St. Luke x.
   31), means literally, the coming together, the meeting, A.V. chance'
   (St. Luke x. 31), means literally, the coming together, the meeting, or
   concurrence of events.

   [2683] Lit. fear took all.'

   [2684] ti.

   [2685] Significantly, the same expression as in St. Luke i. 68.

   [2686] The embassy of the Baptist will be described in connection with
   the account of his martyrdom.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XXI.
THE WOMAN WHICH WAS A SINNER

   (St. Luke vii. 36-50.)

   The precise date and place of the next recorded event in this Galilean
   journey of the Christ are left undetermined. It can scarcely have
   occurred in the quiet little town of Nain, indeed, is scarcely
   congruous with the scene which had been there enacted. And yet it must
   have followed almost immediately upon it. We infer this, not only from
   the silence of St. Matthew, which in this instance might have been due,
   not to the temporary detention of that Evangelist in Capernaum, while
   the others had followed Christ to Nain, but to what may be called the
   sparingness of detail in the Gospel-narratives, each Evangelist
   relating mostly only one in a group of kindred events. [2687] But other
   indications determine our inference. The embassy of the Baptist's
   disciples (which will be described in another connection) [2688]
   undoubtedly followed on the raising of the young man of Nain. This
   embassy would scarcely have come to Jesus in Nain. It probably reached
   Him on His farther Missionary journey, to which there seems some
   reference in the passage in the First Gospel [2689] which succeeds the
   account of that embassy. The actual words there recorded can, indeed,
   scarcely have been spoken at that time. They belong to a later period
   on that Mission-journey, and mark more fully developed opposition and
   rejection of the Christ than in those early days. Chronologically, they
   are in their proper place in St. Luke's Gospel, [2690] where they
   follow in connection with that Mission of the Seventy, which, in part
   at least, was prompted by the growing enmity to the Person of Jesus. On
   the other hand, this Mission of the Seventy, is not recorded by St.
   Matthew. Accordingly, he inserts those prophetic denunciations which,
   according to the plan of his Gospel, could not have been omitted, at
   the beginning of this Missionary journey, because it marks the
   beginning of that systematic opposition, [2691] the full development of
   which, as already stated, prompted the Mission of the Seventy.

   Yet, even so, the impression left upon us by St. Matt. xi. 20-30 (which
   follows on the account of the Baptist's embassy) is, that Jesus was on
   a journey, and it may well be that those precious words of
   encouragement and invitation, spoken to the burdened and wearily
   labouring, [2692] formed part, perhaps the substance, of His preaching
   on that journey. Truly these were good tidings,' and not only to those
   borne down by weight of conscious sinfulness or deep sorrow, who
   wearily toiled towards the light of far-off peace, or those dreamt-of
   heights where some comprehensive view might be gained of life with its
   labours and pangs. Good news,' also, to them who would fain have
   learned' according to their capacity, but whose teachers had weighted
   the yoke of the Kingdom' [2693] to a heavy burden, and made the Will of
   God to them labour, weary and unaccomplishable. But, whether or not
   spoken at that special time, we cannot fail to recognise their special
   suitableness to the forgiven sinner' in the Pharisee's house, [2694]
   and their inward, even if not outward, connection with her history.

   Another point requires notice. It is how, in the unfolding of His
   Mission to Man, the Christ progressively placed Himself in antagonism
   to the Jewish religious thought of His time, from out of which He had
   historically sprung. In this part of His earthly course the antagonism
   appeared, indeed, so to speak, in a positive rather than negative form,
   that is, rather in what He affirmed than in what He combated, because
   the opposition to Him was not yet fully developed; whereas in the
   second part of His course it was, for a similar reason, rather negative
   than positive. From the first this antagonism was there in what He
   taught and did; and it appeared with increasing distinctness in
   proportion as He taught. We find it in the whole spirit and bearing of
   what he did and said - in the house at Capernaum, in the Synagogues,
   with the Gentile Centurion, at the gate of Nain, and especially here,
   in the history of the much forgiven woman who had much sinned. A Jewish
   Rabbi could not have so acted and spoken; he would not even have
   understood Jesus; nay, a Rabbi, however gentle and pitiful, would in
   word and deed have taken precisely the opposite direction from that of
   the Christ.

   As St. Gregory expresses it, this is perhaps a history more fit to be
   wept over than commented upon. For comments seem so often to interpose
   between the simple force of a narrative and our hearts, and few events
   in the Gospel-history have been so blunted and turned aside as this
   history, through verbal controversies and dogmatic wrangling.

   The first impression on our minds is, that the history itself is but a
   fragment. We must try to learn from its structure, where and how it was
   broken off. We understand the infinite delicacy that left her unnamed,
   the record of whose much forgiveness' and great love had to be joined
   to that of her much sin. And we mark, in contrast, the coarse
   clumsiness which, without any reason for the assertion, to meet the
   cravings of morbid curiosity, or for saint-worship, has associated her
   history with the name of Mary Magdalene. [2695] Another, and perhaps
   even more painful, mistake is the attempt of certain critics to
   identify this history with the much later anointing of Christ at
   Bethany, [2696] and to determine which of the two is the simpler, and
   which the more ornate - which the truer of the accounts, and whence, or
   why each case there was a Simon' - perhaps the commonest of Jewish
   names; a woman who anointed; and that Christ, and those who were
   present, spoke and acted in accordance with other passages in the
   Gospel-history: [2697] that is, true to their respective histories.
   But, such twofold anointing - the first, at the beginning of His works
   of mercy, of the Feet by a forgiven, loving sinner on whom the Sun had
   just risen; the second, of His Head, by a loving disciple, when the
   full-orbed Sun was setting in blood, at the close of His Ministry - is,
   as in the twofold purgation of the Temple at the beginning and close of
   His Work, only like the completing of the circle of His Life.

   The invitation of Simon the Pharisee to his table does not necessarily
   indicate, that he had been impressed by the teaching of Jesus, any more
   than the supposed application to his case of what is called the
   parable' of the much and the little forgiven debtor implies, that he
   had received from the Saviour spiritual benefit, great or small. If
   Jesus had taught in the city,' and, as always, irresistibly drawn to
   Him the multitude, it would be only in accordance with the manners of
   the time if the leading Pharisee invited the distinguished Teacher' to
   his table. As such he undoubtedly treated Him. [2698] The question in
   Simon's mind was, whether He was more than Teacher' - even Prophet;'
   and that such question rose within him indicates, not only that Christ
   openly claimed a position different from that of Rabbi, and that His
   followers regarded Him at least as a prophet, but also, within the
   breast of Simon, a struggle in which strong Jewish prejudice was
   bearing down the mighty impression of Christ's Presence.

   They were all sitting, or rather lying' [2699] - the Mishnah sometimes
   also calls it sitting down and leaning' - around the table, the body
   resting on the couch, the feet turned away from the table in the
   direction of the wall, while the left elbow rested on the table. And
   now, from the open courtyard, up the verandah-step, perhaps through an
   antechamber, [2700] and by the open door, passed the figure of a woman
   into the festive reception-room and dining-hall - the Teraglin
   (triclinium) of the Rabbis. [2701] How did she obtain access? Had she
   mingled with the servants, or was access free to all - or had she,
   perhaps, known the house and its owner? [2702] It little matters - as
   little as whether she had been,' or was' up to that day, a sinner,'
   [2703] in the terrible acceptation of the term. But we must bear in
   mind the greatness of Jewish prejudice against any conversation with
   woman, however lofty her character, fully to realise the absolute
   incongruity on the part of such a woman in seeking access to the Rabbi,
   Whom so many regarded as the God-sent Prophet.

   But this, also, is evidential, that here we are far beyond the Jewish
   standpoint. To this woman it was not incongruous, because to her Jesus
   had, indeed, been the Prophet sent from God. We have said before that
   this story is a fragment; and here, also, as in the invitation of Simon
   to Jesus, we have evidence of it. She had, no doubt, heard His words
   that day. What He had said would be, in substance, if not in words:
   Come unto Me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give
   you rest . . . . Learn of Me, for I am meek and lowly in heart. . . . .
   Ye shall find rest unto your souls. . . . .' This was to her the
   Prophet sent from God with the good news that opened even to her the
   Kingdom of Heaven, and laid its yoke upon her, not bearing her down to
   very hell, but easy of wear and light of burden. She knew that it was
   all as He said, in regard to the heavy load of her past; and, as she
   listened to those Words, and looked on that Presence, she learned to
   believe that it was all as He had promised to the heavy burdened. And
   she had watched, and followed Him afar off to the Pharisee's house. Or,
   perhaps, if it be thought that she had not that day heard for herself,
   still, the sound of that message must have reached her, and wakened the
   echoes of her heart. And still it was: Come to Me; learn of Me; I will
   give rest. What mattered all else to her in the hunger of her soul,
   which had just tasted of that Heavenly Bread?

   The shadow of her form must have fallen on all who sat at meat. But
   none spake; nor did she heed any but One. Like heaven's own music, as
   Angels' songs that guide the wanderer home, it still sounded in her
   ears. There are times when we forget all else in one absorbing thought;
   when men's opinions - nay, our own feelings of shame - are effaced by
   that one Presence; when the Come to Me; learn of Me; I will give you
   rest,' are the all in all to us. Then it is, that the fountains of the
   Great Deep within are broken open by the wonder-working rod, with which
   God's Messenger to us - the better Moses - has struck our hearts. She
   had come that day to learn' and to find rest.' What mattered it to her
   who was there, or what they thought? There was only One Whose Presence
   she dared not encounter - not from fear of Him, but from knowledge of
   herself. It was He to Whom she had come. And so she stood behind at His
   Feet.' She had brought with her an alabastron (phial, or flask,
   commonly of alabaster) of perfume. [2704] It is a coarse suggestion,
   that this had originally been bought for a far different purpose. We
   know that perfumes were much sought after, and very largely in use.
   Some, such as true balsam, were worth double their weight in silver;
   others, like the spikenard (whether as juice or unguent, along with
   other ingredients), though not equally costly, were also precious.' We
   have evidence that perfumed oils - notably oil of rose, [2705] and of
   the iris plant, but chiefly the mixture known in antiquity as foliatum,
   were largely manufactured and used in Palestine. [2706] A flask with
   this perfume was worn by women round the neck, and hung down below the
   breast (the Tselochith shel Palyeton). [2707] So common was its use as
   to be allowed even on the Sabbath. [2708] This flask' (possibly the
   Chumarta de Philon of Gitt. 69 b) - not always of glass, but of silver
   or gold, probably often also of alabaster - containing palyeton'
   (evidently, the foliatum of Pliny) was used both to sweeten the breath
   and perfume the person. Hence it seems at least not unlikely, that the
   alabastron which she brought, who loved so much, was none other than
   the flask of foliatum,' so common among Jewish woman. [2709]

   As she stood behind Him at His Feet, reverently bending, a shower of
   tears, like sudden, quick summer-rain, that refreshes air and earth,
   bedewed' [2710] His Feet. As if surprised, or else afraid to awaken His
   attention, or defile Him by her tears, she quickly [2711] wiped them
   away with the long tresses of her hair that had fallen down and touched
   Him, [2712] as she bent over His Feet. Nay, not to wash them in such
   impure waters had she come, but to show such loving gratefulness and
   reverence as in her poverty she could, and in her humility she might
   offer. And, now that her faith had grown bold in His Presence, she is
   continuing [2713] to kiss those Feet which had brought to her the good
   tidings of peace,' and to anoint them out of the alabastron round her
   neck. And still she spake not, nor yet He. For, as on her part silence
   seemed most fitting utterance, so on His, that He suffered it in
   silence was best and most fitting answer to her.

   Another there was whose thoughts, far other than hers or the Christ's,
   were also unuttered. A more painful contrast than that of the Pharisee'
   in this scene, can scarcely be imagined. We do not insist that the
   designation this Man,' [2714] given to Christ in his spoken thoughts,
   or the manner in which afterwards he replied to the Saviour's question
   by a supercilious I suppose,' or presume,' [2715] necessarily imply
   contempt. But they certainly indicate the mood of his spirit. One
   thing, at least, seems now clear to this Pharisee: If this Man,' this
   strange, wandering, popular idol, with His strange, novel ways and
   words, Whom in politeness he must call Teacher,' [2716] Rabbi, were a
   Prophet, He would have known who the woman was, and, if He had known
   who she was, then would He never have allowed such approach. So do we,
   also, often argue as to what He would do, if He knew. But He does know;
   and it is just because He knoweth that He doeth what, from our lower
   standpoint, we cannot understand. Had He been a Rabbi, He would
   certainly, and had he been merely a Prophet, He would probably, have
   repelled such approach. The former, if not from self-righteousness, yet
   from ignorance of sin and forgiveness; the latter, because such homage
   was more than man's due. [2717] But, He was more than a prophet - the
   Saviour of sinners; and so she might quietly weep over His Feet, and
   then quickly wipe away the dew' of the better morning,' and then
   continue to Kiss His Feet and to anoint them.

   And yet Prophet He also was, and in far fuller sense than Simon could
   have imagined. For, He had read Simon's unspoken thoughts. Presently He
   would show it to him; yet not, as we might, by open reproof, that would
   have put him to shame before his guests, but with infinite delicacy
   towards His host, and still in manner that he could not mistake. What
   follows is not, as generally supposed, a parable but an illustration.
   Accordingly, it must in no way be pressed. With this explanation vanish
   all the supposed difficulties about the Pharisees being little
   forgiven,' and hence loving little.' To convince Simon of the error of
   his conclusion, that, if the life of that woman had been known, the
   prophet must have forbidden her touch of love, Jesus entered into the
   Pharisee's own modes of reasoning. Of two debtors, one of whom owned
   ten times as much as the other, [2718] who would best love the creditor
   [2719] who had freely [2720] forgiven them? [2721] Though to both the
   debt might have been equally impossible of discharge, and both might
   love equally, yet a Rabbi would, according to his Jewish notions, say,
   that he would love most to whom most had been forgiven. If this was the
   undoubted outcome of Jewish theology - the so much for so much - let it
   be applied to the present case. If there were much benefit, there would
   be much love; if little benefit, little love. And conversely: in such
   case much love would argue much benefit; little love, small benefit.
   Let him then apply the reasoning by marking this woman, and contrasting
   her conduct with his own. To wash the feet of a guest, to give him the
   kiss of welcome, and especially to anoint him, [2722] were not, indeed,
   necessary attentions at a feast. All the more did they indicate special
   care, affection, and respect. [2723] None of these tokens of deep
   regard had marked the merely polite reception of Him by the Pharisee.
   But, in a twofold climax of which the intensity can only be indicated,
   [2724] the Saviour now proceeds to show, how different it had been with
   her, to whom, for the first time, He now turned! On Simon's own
   reasoning, then, he must have received but little, she much benefit.
   Or, to apply the former illustration, and now to reality: Forgiven have
   been her sins, the many' [2725] - not in ignorance, but with knowledge
   of their being many.' This, by Simon's former admission, would explain
   and account for her much love, as the effect of much forgiveness. On
   the other hand - though in delicacy the Lord does not actually express
   it - this other inference would also hold true, that Simon's little
   love showed that little is being forgiven.' [2726]

   What has been explained will dispose of another controversy which, with
   little judgment and less taste, has been connected with this marvellous
   history. It must not be made a question as between Romanist and
   Protestant, nor as between rival dogmatists, whether love had any
   meritorious part in her forgiveness, or whether, as afterwards stated,
   her faith' had saved' her. Undoubtedly, her faith had saved her. What
   she had heard from His lips, what she knew of Him, she had believed.
   She had believed in the good tidings of peace' which He had brought, in
   the love of God, and His Fatherhood of pity to the most sunken and
   needy; in Christ, as the Messenger of Reconciliation and Peace with
   God; in the Kingdom of Heaven which He had so suddenly and unexpectedly
   opened to her, from out of whose unfolded golden gates Heaven's light
   had fallen upon her, Heaven's voices had come to her. She had believed
   it all: the Father, the Son - Revealer, the Holy Ghost - Revealing. And
   it had saved her. When she came to that feast, and stood behind with
   humbled, loving gratefulness and reverence of heart-service, she was
   already saved. She needed not to be forgiven: she had been forgiven.
   And it was because she was forgiven that she bedewed His Feet with the
   summer-shower of her heart, and, quickly wiping away the flood with her
   tresses, continued kissing and anointing them. All this was the impulse
   of her heart, who, having come in heart, still came to Him, and learned
   of Him, and found rest to her soul. In that early springtide of her
   new-born life, it seemed that, as on Aaron's rod, leaf, bud, and flower
   were all together in tangled confusion of rich forthbursting. She had
   not yet reached order and clearness; perhaps, in the fulness of her
   feelings, knew not how great were her blessings, and felt not yet that
   conscious rest which grows out of faith in the forgiveness which it
   obtains.

   And this was now the final gift of Jesus to her. As formerly for the
   first time He had turned so now for the first time He spoke to her -
   and once more with tenderest delicacy. Thy sins have been forgiven'
   [2727] - not, are forgiven, and not now - the many.' Nor does He now
   heed the murmuring thoughts of those around, who cannot understand Who
   this is that forgiveth sins also. But to her, and truly, though not
   literally, to them also, and to us, He said in explanation and
   application of it all: Thy faith has saved thee: go into peace.' [2728]
   Our logical dogmatics would have had it: go in peace;' more truly He,
   into peace.' [2729] And so she, the first who had come to Him for
   spiritual healing the, first of an unnumbered host, went out into the
   better light, into peace of heart, peace of faith, peace of rest, and
   into the eternal peace of the Kingdom of Heaven, and of the Heaven of
   the kingdom hereafter and for ever.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [2687] This is specially characteristic of the Gospel by St. Luke.

   [2688] See note in previous chapter.

   [2689] St. Matt. xi. 20-30.

   [2690] St. Luke x. 13-22.

   [2691] St. Matt. xi. 16-19

   [2692] St. Matt. xi. 28-30.

   [2693] Made the yoke of the Kingdom of Heaven' ({hebrew}) equal to the
   yoke of the Law' ({hebrew}) or to that of the commandments' ({hebrew}).

   [2694] St. Luke vii. 36.

   [2695] The untenableness of this strange hypothesis has been shown in
   almost all commentaries. There is not a tittle of evidence for it.

   [2696] St. Matt. xxvi. 6&c. and parallels.

   [2697] The objections of Keim, though bulking largely when heaped
   together by him, seem not only unfair, but, when examined one by one,
   are seen to be groundless.

   [2698] St. Luke vii. 40

   [2699] Ber. vi. 6 makes the following curious distinction: if they sit
   at the table, each says the grace' for himself; if they lie down' to
   table, one says it in the name of all. If wine is handed them during
   dinner, each says the grace' over it for himself; if after dinner, one
   says it for all.

   [2700] Ab. iv.16.

   [2701] The Teraqlin was sometimes entered by an antechamber (Prosedor),
   Ab. iv. 16, and opened into one (Jer. Rosh haSh. 59 b), or more (Yom.
   15 b), side-or bed-rooms. The common measurement for such a hall was
   fifteen feet (ten cubits) breadth, length, and height (Baba B. vi. 4).

   [2702] The strangeness of the circumstance suggests this, which is,
   alas! by no means inconsistent with what we know of the morality of
   some of these Rabbis, although this page must not be stained by
   detailed references.

   [2703] The other and harsher reading, a woman which was in the city a
   sinner,' need scarcely be discussed.

   [2704] I have so translated the word mron, which the A.V. renders
   ointment.' The word is evidently the Hebrew and Rabbinic {hebrew}
   which, however, is not always the equivalent for myrrh, but seems also
   to mean musk and mastic. In short, I regard it as designating any fluid
   unguent or - generally speaking, perfume.' So common was the use of
   perfumes, that Ber. vi. 6 mentions a mugmar, or a kind of incense,
   which was commonly burnt after a feast. As regards the word
   alabastron,' the name was given to perfume-phials in general, even if
   not made of alabaster, because the latter was so frequently used for
   such flasks.

   [2705] Shebh. vii. 6.

   [2706] Jer. Demai 22 b.

   [2707] Ab. S. 35 b.

   [2708] Shabb. vi. 3.

   [2709] The derivation of the Rabbinic term in Buxtorf's Lexicon (p.
   1724) is certainly incorrect. I have no doubt the {hebrew} was the
   foliatum of Pliny (Hist. Nat. xiii. 1, 2). In Jew. War iv. 9, 10,
   Josephus seems to imply that women occasionally poured over themselves
   unguents. According to Kethub. vi. 4, a woman might apparently spend a
   tenth of her dowry on such things as unguents and perfumes. For, in
   Kethub. 66 b we have an exaggerated account of a woman spending upwards
   of 300l. on perfumes! This will at any rate prove their common and
   abundant use.

   [2710] This is the real meaning of the verb.

   [2711] This is implied in the tense.

   [2712] It is certainly not implied, that she had her hair dishevelled
   as in mourning, or as by women before drinking the waters of jealousy.

   [2713] The tense implies this.

   [2714] ver. 39.

   [2715] ver. 43.

   [2716] In the A. V.

   [2717] The Talmud, with its usual exaggeration, has this story when
   commenting on the reverence due by children to their parents, that R.
   Ishmael's mother had complained her son would not allow her, when he
   came from the Academy, to wash his feet and then drink the water - on
   which the sages made the Rabbi yield! (Jer. Peah 15 c). Again, some one
   came to kiss R. Jonathan's feet, because he had induced filial
   reverence in his son (u. s., col. d).

   [2718] The one sum="upwards" of 15l.; the other=upwards of 1l. 10s.

   [2719] Money-lender - though perhaps not in the evil sense which we
   attach to the term. At the same time, the frequent allusion to such and
   to their harsh ways offers painful illustration of the social state at
   the time.

   [2720] So rather than frankly' in the A. V.

   [2721] The points of resemblance and of difference with St. Matt.
   xviii. 23 will readily appear on comparison.

   [2722] Comp. for ex. St. John xiii. 4.

   [2723] Washing: Gen. xviii. 4; xix. 2; xxiv. 32; Judg. xix. 21; 1 Sam.
   xxv. 41; kissing: Ex. xviii. 7; 2 Sam. xv. 5; xix. 39; anointing: Eccl.
   ix. 8; Amos vi. 6, as well as Ps. xxiii. 5.

   [2724] Thou gavest me no water, she washed not with water but tears; no
   kiss, she kissed my feet; no oil, she unguent; not to the head, but to
   the feet. And yet: emphatically - into thy house I came, &c.

   [2725] So literally.

   [2726] Mark the tense.

   [2727] So, properly rendered. Romanism, in this also arrogating to man
   more than Christ Himself ever spoke, has it: Absolvo te, not thy sins
   have been forgiven,' but I absolve thee!

   [2728] So literally.

   [2729] This distinction between the two modes of expression is marked
   in Moed. K. 29 a: into peace,' as said to the living; in peace,' as
   referring to the dead.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XXII.
THE MINISTRY OF LOVE, THE BLASPHEMY OF HATRED, AND THE MISTAKES OF EARTHLY
AFFECTION - THE RETURN TO CAPERNAUM - HEALING OF THE DEMONISED DUMB - PHARISAIC
CHARGE AGAINST CHRIST - THE VISIT OF CHRIST'S MOTHER AND BRETHREN

   (St. Luke viii. 1-3; St. Matt. ix. 32-35; St. Mark iii. 22, &c.; St.
   Matt. xii. 46-50 and parallels.)

   HOWEVER interesting and important to follow the steps of our Lord on
   His journey through Galilee, and to group in their order the notices of
   it in the Gospels, the task seems almost hopeless. In truth, since none
   of the Evangelists attempted - should we not say, ventured - to write a
   Life' of the Christ, any strictly historical arrangement lay outside
   their purpose. Their point of view was that of the internal, rather
   than the external development of this history. And so events, kindred
   in purpose, discourses bearing on the same subject, or parables
   pointing to the same stretch of truth, were grouped together; or, as in
   the present instance, the unfolding teaching of Christ and the growing
   opposition of His enemies exhibited by joining together notices which,
   perhaps, belong to different periods. And the lesson to us is, that,
   just as the Old Testament gives neither the national history of Israel,
   nor the biography of its heroes, but a history of the Kingdom of God in
   its progressive development, so the Gospels present not a Life of
   Christ,' but the history of the Kingdom of God in its progressive
   manifestation.

   Yet, although there are difficulties connected with details, we can
   trace in outline the general succession of events. We conclude, that
   Christ was now returning to Capernaum from that Missionary journey
   [2730] of which Nain had been the southernmost point. On this journey
   He was attended, not only by the Twelve, but by loving grateful women,
   who ministered to Him of their substance. Among them three are
   specially named. Mary, called Magdalene,' had received from Him special
   benefit of healing to body and soul. [2731] Her designation as
   Magdalene was probably derived from her native city, Magdala, [2732]
   just as several Rabbis are spoken of in the Talmud as Magdalene'
   (Magdelaah, or Magdelaya [2733] ). Magdala, which was a Sabbath-day's
   journey from Tiberias, [2734] was celebrated for its dyeworks, [2735]
   and its manufactories of fine woolen textures, of which eighty are
   mentioned. [2736] Indeed, all that district seems to have been engaged
   in this industry. [2737] It was also reputed for its traffic in
   turtle-doves and pigeons for purifications - tradition, with its usual
   exaggeration of numbers, mentioning three hundred such shops. [2738]
   Accordingly, its wealth was very great, and it is named among the three
   cities whose contributions were so large as to be sent in a wagon to
   Jerusalem. [2739] But its moral corruption was also great, and to this
   the Rabbis attributed its final destruction. [2740] Magdala had a
   Synagogue. [2741] [2742] Its name was probably derived from a strong
   tower which defended its approaches, or served for outlook. This
   suggestion is supported by the circumstance, that what seems to have
   formed part, or a suburb of Magdala, [2743] bore the names of
   Fish-tower' and Tower of the Dyers.' One at least, if not both these
   towers, would be near the landing-place, by the Lake of Galilee, and
   overlook its waters. The necessity for such places of outlook and
   defence, making the town a Magdala, would be increased by the proximity
   of the magnificent plain of Gennesaret, of which Josephus speaks in
   such rapturous terms. [2744] Moreover, only twenty minutes to the north
   of Magdala descended the so-called Valley of Doves' (the Wady Hamâm),
   through which passed the ancient caravan-road that led over Nazareth to
   Damascus. The name valley of doves' illustrates the substantial
   accuracy of the Rabbinic descriptions of ancient Magdala. Modern
   travelers (such as Dean Stanley, Professor Robinson, Farrar, and
   others) have noticed the strange designation Valley of Doves' without
   being able to suggest the explanation of it, which the knowledge of its
   traffic in doves for purposes of purification at once supplies. Of the
   many towns and villages that dotted the shores of the Lake of Galilee,
   all have passed away except Magdala, which is still represented by the
   collection of mud hovels that bears the name of Mejdel. The ancient
   watch-tower which gave the place its name is still there, probably
   standing on the same site as that which looked down on Jesus and the
   Magdalene. To this day Magdala is celebrated for its springs and
   rivulets, which render it specially suitable for dyeworks; while the
   shell-fish with which these waters and the Lake are said to abound,
   [2745] might supply some of the dye. [2746]

   Such details may help us more clearly to realise the home, and with it,
   perhaps, also the upbringing and circumstances of her who not only
   ministered to Jesus in His Life, but, with eager avarice of love,
   watched afar off' His dying moments, [2747] and then sat over against
   the new tomb of Joseph in which His Body was laid. [2748] And the
   terrible time which followed she spent with her like-minded friends,
   who in Galilee had ministered to Christ, [2749] in preparing those
   spices and ointments' [2750] which the Risen Saviour would never
   require. For, on that Easter-morning the empty tomb of Jesus was only
   guarded by Angel-messengers, who announced to the Magdalene and Joanna,
   as well as the other women, [2751] the gladsome tidings that His
   foretold Resurrection had become a reality. But however difficult the
   circumstances may have been, in which the Magdalene came to profess her
   faith in Jesus, those of Joanna (the Hebrew Yochani [2752] ) must have
   been even more trying. She was the wife of Chuza, Herod's Steward
   [2753] - possibly, though not likely, the Court-official whose son
   Jesus had healed by the word spoken in Cana. [2754] The absence of any
   reference to the event seems rather opposed to this supposition.
   Indeed, it seems doubtful, whether Chuza was a Jewish name. In Jewish
   writings [2755] the designation ({hebrew}) [2756] seems rather used as
   a by-name (little pitcher') for a small, insignificant person, than as
   a proper name. [2757]   Only one other of those who ministered to Jesus
   is mentioned by name. It is Susanna, the lily.' The names of the other
   loving women are not written on the page of earth's history, but only
   on that of the Lamb's Book of Life.' And they ministered to Him of
   their substance.' So early did eternal riches appear in the grab of
   poverty; so soon did love to Christ find its treasure in consecrating
   it to His Ministry. And ever since has this been the law of His
   Kingdom, to our great humiliation and yet greater exaltation in
   fellowship with Him.

   It was on this return-journey to Capernaum, probably not far from the
   latter place, that the two blind men had their sight restored. [2758]
   It was then, also, that the healing of the demonised dumb took place,
   which is recorded in St. Matt. ix. 32-35, and alluded to in St. Mark
   iii. 22-30. This narrative must, of course, not be confounded with the
   somewhat similar event told in St. Matt. xii. 22-32, and in St. Luke
   xi. 14-26. The latter occurred at a much later period in our Lord's
   life, when, as the whole context shows, the opposition of the Pharisaic
   party had assumed much larger proportions, and the language of Jesus
   was more fully denunciatory of the character and guilt of His enemies.
   That charge of the Pharisees, therefore, that Jesus cast out the demons
   through the Prince of the demons, [2759] as well as His reply to it,
   will best be considered when it shall appear in its fullest
   development. This all the more, that we believe at least the greater
   part of our Lord's answer to their blasphemous accusation, as given in
   St. Mark's Gospel, [2760] to have been spoken at that later period.
   [2761]

   It was on this return-journey to Capernaum from the uttermost borders
   of Galilee, when for the first time He was not only followed by His
   twelve Apostles, but attended by the loving service of those who owed
   their all to His Ministry, that the demonized dumb was restored by the
   casting our of the demon. Even these circumstances show that a new
   stage in the Messianic course had begun. It is characterised by fuller
   unfolding of Christ's teaching and working, and pari passu, by more
   fully developed opposition of the Pharisaic party. For the two went
   together, nor can they be distinguished as cause or effect. That new
   stage, as repeatedly noted, had opened on His return from the Unknown
   Feast' in Jerusalem, whence He seems to have been followed by the
   Pharisaic party. We have marked it so early as the call of the four
   disciples by the Lake of Galilee. But it first actively appeared at the
   healing of the paralytic in Capernaum, when, for the first time, we
   noticed the presence and murmuring of the Scribes, and, for the first
   time also, the distinct declaration about the forgiveness of sins on
   the part of Jesus. The same twofold element appeared in the call of the
   publican Matthew, and the cavil of the Pharisees at Christ's subsequent
   eating and drinking with sinners.' It was in further development of
   this separation from the old and now hostile element, that the twelve
   Apostles were next appointed, and that distinctive teaching of Jesus
   addressed to the people in the Sermon on the Mount,' which was alike a
   vindication and an appeal. On the journey through Galilee, which now
   followed, the hostile party does not seem to have actually attended
   Jesus; but their growing, and now outspoken opposition is heard in the
   discourse of Christ about John the Baptist after the dismissal of his
   disciples, [2762] while its influence appears in the unspoken thoughts
   of Simon the Pharisee.

   But even before these two events, that had happened which would induce
   the Pharisaic party to increased measures against Jesus. It has already
   been suggested, that the party, as such, did not attend Jesus on His
   Galilean journey. But we are emphatically told, that tidings of the
   raising of the dead at Nain had gone forth into Judæa. [2763] No doubt
   they reached the leaders at Jerusalem. There seems just sufficient time
   between this and the healing of the demonised dumb on the
   return-journey to Capernaum, to account for the presence there of those
   Pharisees, [2764] who are expressly described by St. Mark [2765] as the
   Scribes which came down from Jerusalem.'

   Other circumstances, also, are thus explained. Whatever view the
   leaders at Jerusalem may have taken of the raising at Nain, it could no
   longer be denied that miracles were wrought by Jesus. At least, what to
   us seem miracles, yet not to them, since, as we have seen, miraculous'
   cures and the expelling of demons lay within the sphere of their
   extraordinary ordinary' - were not miracles in our sense, since they
   were, or professed to be, done by their own children.' The mere fact,
   therefore, of such cures, would present no difficulty to them. To us a
   single well-ascertained miracle would form irrefragable evidence of the
   claims of Christ; to them it would not. They could believe in the
   miracles,' and yet not in the Christ. To them the question would not
   be, as to us, whether they were miracles - but, By what power, or in
   what Name, He did these deeds? From our standpoint, their opposition to
   the Christ would - in view of His Miracles - seem not only wicked. but
   rationally inexplicable. But ours was not their point of view. And
   here, again, we perceive that it was enmity of the Person and Teaching
   of Jesus which led to the denial of His claims. The inquiry: By what
   Power Jesus did these works? they met by the assertion, that it was
   through that of Satan, or the Chief of the Demons. They regarded Jesus,
   as not only temporarily, but permanently, possessed by a demon, that
   is, as the constant vehicle of Satanic influence. And this demon was,
   according to them, none other than Beelzebub, the prince of the devils.
   [2766] Thus, in their view, it was really Satan who acted in and
   through Him; and Jesus, instead of being recognised as the Son of God,
   was regarded as an incarnation of Satan; instead of being owned as the
   Messiah, was denounced and treated as the representative of the Kingdom
   of Darkness. All this, because the Kingdom which He came to open, and
   which He preached, was precisely the opposite of what they regarded as
   the Kingdom of God. Thus it was the essential contrariety of Rabbinism
   to the Gospel of the Christ that lay at the foundation of their conduct
   towards the Person of Christ. We venture to assert, that this accounts
   for the whole after-history up to the Cross.

   Thus viewed, the history of Pharisaic opposition appears not only
   consistent, but is, so to speak, morally accounted for. Their guilt lay
   in treating that as Satanic agency which was of the Holy Ghost; and
   this, because they were of their father the Devil, and knew not, nor
   understood, nor yet loved the Light, their deeds being evil. They were
   not children of the light, but of that darkness which comprehended Him
   not Who was the Light. And now we can also understand the growth of
   active opposition to Christ. Once arrived at the conclusion, that the
   miracles which Christ did were due to the power of Satan, and that He
   was the representative of the Evil One, their course was rationally and
   morally chosen. To regard every fresh manifestation of Christ's Power
   as only a fuller development of the power of Satan, and to oppose it
   with increasing determination and hostility, even to the Cross: such
   was henceforth the natural progress of this history. On the other hand,
   such a course once fully settled upon, there would, and could, be no
   further reasoning with, or against it on the part of Jesus. Henceforth
   His Discourses and attitude to such Judaism must be chiefly
   denunciatory, while still seeking - as, from the inward necessity of
   His Nature and the outward necessity of His Mission, He must - to save
   the elect remnant from this untoward generation,' and to lay broad and
   wide the foundations of the future Church. But the old hostile Judaism
   must henceforth be left to the judgment of condemnation, except in
   those tears of Divine pity which the Jew-King and Jewish Messiah wept
   over the Jerusalem that knew not the day of its visitation.

   But all this, when the now beginning movement shall have reached its
   full proportions. [2767] For the present, we mark only its first
   appearance. The charge of Satanic agency was, indeed, not quite new. It
   had been suggested, that John the Baptist had been under demoniacal
   influence, and this cunning pretext for resistance to his message had
   been eminently successful with the people. [2768] The same charge, only
   in much fuller form, was not raised against Jesus. As the multitude
   marvelled, saying, it was never so seen in Israel,' the Pharisees,
   without denying the facts, had this explanation of them, to be
   presently developed to all its terrible consequences: that, both as
   regarded the casting out of the demon from the dumb man and all similar
   works, Jesus wrought it through the Ruler of the Demons.' [2769] [2770]


   And so the edge of this manifestation of the Christ was blunted and
   broken. But their besetment of the Christ did not cease. It is to this
   that we attribute the visit of the mother and brethren' of Jesus, which
   is recorded in the three Synoptic Gospels. [2771] Even this
   circumstance shows its decisive importance. It forms a parallel to the
   former attempts of the Pharisees to influence the disciples of Jesus,
   [2772] and then to stir up the hostility of the disciples of John,
   [2773] both of which are recorded by the three Evangelists. It also
   brought to light another distinctive characteristic of the Mission of
   Jesus. We place this visit of the mother and brethren' of Jesus
   immediately after His return to Capernaum, and we attribute it to
   Pharisaic opposition, which either filled those relatives of Jesus with
   fear for His safety, or made them sincerely concerned about His
   proceedings. Only if it meant some kind of interference with His
   Mission, whether prompted by fear or affection, would Jesus have so
   disowned their relationship.

   But it meant more than this. As always, the positive went side by side
   with the negative. Without going so far, as with some of the Fathers,
   to see pride or ostentation in this, that the Virgin--Mother summoned
   Jesus to her outside the house, since the opposite might as well have
   been her motive, we cannot but regard the words of Christ as the
   sternest prophetic rebuke of all Mariolatry, prayer for the Virgin's
   intercession, and, still more, of the strange doctrines about her
   freedom from actual and original sin, up to their prurient sequence in
   the dogma of the Immaculate Conception.'

   On the other hand, we also remember the deep reverence among the Jews
   for parents, which found even exaggerated expression in the Talmud.
   [2774] [2775] And we feel that, of all in Israel, He, Who was their
   King, could not have spoken nor done what might even seem disrespectful
   to a mother. There must have been higher meaning in His words. That
   meaning would be better understood after His Resurrection. But even
   before that it was needful, in presence of interference or hindrance by
   earthly relationships, even the nearest and tenderest, and perhaps all
   the more in their case, to point to the higher and stronger spiritual
   relationship. And beyond this, to still higher truth. For, had He not
   entered into earthly kinship solely for the sake of the higher
   spiritual relationship which He was about to found; and was it not,
   then, in the most literal sense, that not those in nearest earthly
   relationship, but they who sat about Him, nay, whoever shall do the
   will of God,' were really in closest kinship with Him? Thus, it was not
   that Christ set lightly by His Mother, but that He confounded not the
   means with the end, nor yet surrendered the spirit for the letter of
   the Law of Love, when, refusing to be arrested or turned aside from His
   Mission, even for a moment, [2776] He elected to do the Will of His
   Father rather than neglect it by attending to the wishes of the
   Virgin-Mother. As Bengel aptly puts it: He contemns not the Mother, but
   He places the Father first. [2777] And this is ever the right
   relationship in the Kingdom of Heaven!

   THE ASCENT: FROM THE RIVER JORDAN TO THE MOUNT OF TRANSFIGURATION
     __________________________________________________________________

   [2730] St. Luke viii. 1-3; St. Matt. ix. 35.

   [2731] Out of whom went seven devils.' Those who are curious to see one
   attempt at finding a rational' basis for some of the Talmudical legends
   about Mary Magdalene and others connected with the history of Christ,
   may consult the essay of Rösch in the Studien and Kritiken for 1873,
   pp. 77-115 (Die Jesus-Mythen d. Judenth.)

   [2732] The suggestion that the word meant curler of hair,' which is
   made by Lightfoot, and repeated by his modern followers, depends on
   entire misapprehension.

   [2733] In Baba Mets. 25 a, middle, R. Isaac the Magdalene is introduced
   in a highly characteristic discussion about coins that are found. His
   remark about three coins laid on each other like a tower might, if it
   had not been connected with such a grave discussion, have almost seemed
   a pun on Magdala.

   [2734] Jer. Erub. 22 d, end.

   [2735] Ber. R. 79.

   [2736] Jer. Taan. 69 a, line 15 from bottom.

   [2737] Thus in regard to another village (not mentioned either by
   Relandus or Neubauer) in the Midr. on Lament. ii. 2, ed. Warsh. p. 67
   b, line 13 from bottom.

   [2738] Midr. on Lament. ii. 2.

   [2739] Jer. Taan. 69 a.

   [2740] Jer. Taan. u.s.; Midr. on Lament. ii. 2, ed. Warsh. p. 67 b
   middle.

   [2741] Midr. on Eccl. x. 8, ed. Warsh p. 102 b.

   [2742] This Synagogue is introduced in the almost blasphemous account
   of the miracles of Simon ben Jochai, when he declared Tiberias free
   from the defilement of dead bodies, buried there.

   [2743] This has been well shown by Neubauer, Géogr. de la Palestine,
   pp. 217, 218.

   [2744] Jewish War iii. 10.

   [2745] Baedeker's Palastina, pp. 268, 269.

   [2746] It is at any rate remarkable that the Talmud (Megill. 6 a) finds
   in the ancient territory of Zebulun the Chilzon ({hebrew}) so largely
   used in dyeing purple and scarlet, and so very precious. Spurious dyes
   of the same colour were also produced (comp. Lewysohn, Zool. d. Talm.
   pp. 281-283).

   [2747] St. Matt. xxvii. 56.

   [2748] ver. 61.

   [2749] St. Luke xxiii. 55.

   [2750] ver. 56.

   [2751] St. Luke xxiv. 10.

   [2752] Seb. 62 b.

   [2753] Curiously enough, the Greek term x ptropos x (steward) has
   passed into the Rabbinic Aphiterophos.

   [2754] St. John iv. 46-54.

   [2755] Delitzsch (Zeitsch. für Luther Theol. for 1876, p. 598), seems
   to regard Kuzith ({hebrew}) as the Jewish equivalent of Chuza. The word
   is mentioned in the Aruch (ed. Landau, p. 801 b, where the references,
   however, are misquoted) as occurring in Ber. R. 23 and 51. No existing
   copy of the Midrash has these references, which seem to have been
   purposely omitted. It is curious that both occur in connection with
   Messianic passages. In any case, however, Kuzith was not a proper name,
   but some mystic designation. Lightfoot (Horæ Hebr. on Luke viii. 3)
   reads in the genealogy of Haman (in Sopher. xiii. 6) Bar Kuza. But it
   is really Bar Biza, son of contempt' - all the names being intended as
   defamatory of Haman. Similarly, Lightfoot asserts that the designation
   does not occur in the genealogy of Haman in the Targum Esther. But in
   the Second Targum Esther (Miqraoth Gedol. Part vi. p. 5 a) the name
   does occur in the genealogy as Bar Buzah.'

   [2756] Yebam. 70 a.

   [2757] Dr. Neubauer (Studia Bibl. p. 225) regards Chuza as an Idumæan
   name, connected with the Edomite god Kos.

   [2758] St. Matt. ix. 27-31.

   [2759] St. Matt. ix. 34.

   [2760] St. Mark iii. 23-30.

   [2761] I regard St. Mark iii. 23-30 as combining the event in St. Matt.
   ix. (see St. Mark iii. 23) with what is recorded in St. Matt. xii. and
   St. Luke xi., and I account for this combination by the circumstance
   that the latter is not related by St. Mark.

   [2762] St. Matt. xi. 16-19.

   [2763] St. Luke vii. 17.

   [2764] St. Matt. ix. 34.

   [2765] St. Mark iii. 32.

   [2766] St. Mark iii. 22.

   [2767] St. Matt. xii. 22 &c.; St. Luke xi. 14 &c.

   [2768] St. Matt. xi. 17, 18; St. Luke vii. 31-32.

   [2769] St. Matt. ix. 33, 34.

   [2770] At the same time I have, with not a few authorities, strong
   doubts whether St. Matt. ix. 34 is not to be regarded as an
   interpolation (see Westcott and Hort, New Testament). Substantially,
   the charge was there; but it seems doubtful whether, in so many words,
   it was made till a later period.

   [2771] St. Matt. xii. 46 &c.; St. Mark iii. 31 &c. St. Luke viii. 19
   &c.

   [2772] St. Matt. ix. 11.

   [2773] u. s. ver. 14.

   [2774] Jer. Peah i. 1.

   [2775] An instance of this has been given in the previous chapter, p.
   567, note. Other examples of filial reverence are mentioned, some
   painfully ludicrous, others touching, and accompanied by sayings which
   sometimes rise to the sublime.

   [2776] Bengel remarks on St. Matt. xii. 46: Non plane hic congruebat
   sensus Mariæ cum sensu Filii.'

   [2777] Non spernit Matrem, sed anteponit Patrem.'
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XXIII.
NEW TEACHING IN PARABLES' - THE PARABLES TO THE PEOPLE BY THE LAKE OF GALILEE,
AND THOSE TO THE DISCIPLES IN CAPERNAUM

   (St. Matt. xiii. 1-52; St. Mark iv. 1-34; St. Luke viii. 4-18.)

   We are once more with Jesus and His disciples by the Lake of Galilee.
   We love to think that it was in the early morning, when the light laid
   its golden shadows on the still waters, and the fresh air, untainted by
   man, was fragrant of earth's morning sacrifice, when no voice of human
   discord marred the restfulness of holy silence, nor broke the Psalm of
   Nature's praise. It was a spring morning too, and of such spring-time
   as only the East, and chiefly the Galilean Lake, knows - nor of mingled
   sunshine and showers, of warmth and storm, clouds and brightness, when
   life seems to return slowly and feebly to the palsied limbs of our
   northern climes, but when at the warm touch it bounds and throbs with
   the vigour of youth. The imagery of the Sermon on the Mount' indicates
   that winter's rain and storms were just past. [2778] Under that sky
   Nature seems to meet the coming of spring by arraying herself in a garb
   more glorious than Solomon's royal pomp. Almost suddenly the blood-red
   anemones, the gay tulips, the spotless narcissus, and the golden
   ranunculus [2779] deck with wondrous richness the grass of the fields -
   alas! so soon to wither [2780] - while all trees put forth their
   fragrant promise of fruit. [2781] As the imagery employed in the Sermon
   on the Mount confirmed the inference, otherwise derived, that it was
   spoken during the brief period after the winter rains, when the lilies'
   decked the fresh grass, so the scene depicted in the Parables spoken by
   the Lake of Galilee indicates a more advanced season, when the fields
   gave first promise of a harvest to be gathered in due time. And as we
   know that the barley-harvest commenced with the Passover, we cannot be
   mistaken in supposing that the scene is laid a few weeks before that
   Feast.

   Other evidence of this is not wanting. From the opening verses [2782]
   we infer, that Jesus had gone forth from the house' with His disciples
   only, and that, as He sat by the seaside, the gathering multitude had
   obliged Him to enter a ship, whence He spake unto them many things in
   Parables. That this parabolic teaching did not follow, far less, was
   caused by, the fully developed enmity of the Pharisees, [2783] [2784]
   will appear more clearly in the sequel. Meantime it should be noticed,
   that the first series of Parables (those spoken by the Lake of Galilee)
   bear no distinct reference to it. In this respect we mark an ascending
   scale in the three series of Parables, spoken respectively at three
   different periods in the History of Christ, and with reference to three
   different stages of Pharisaic opposition and popular feeling. The first
   series is that, [2785] when Pharisaic opposition had just devised the
   explanation that His works were of demoniac agency, and when misled
   affection would have converted the ties of earthly relationship into
   bonds to hold the Christ. To this there was only one reply, when the
   Christ stretched out His Hand over those who had learned, by following
   Him, to do the Will of His Heavenly Father, and so become His nearest
   of kin. This was the real answer to the attempt of His mother and
   brethren; that to the Pharisaic charge of Satanic agency. And it was in
   this connection that, first to the multitude, then to His disciples,
   the first series of Parables was spoken, which exhibits the elementary
   truths concerning the planting of the Kingdom of God, its development,
   reality, value, and final vindication.

   In the second series of Parables we mark a different stage. The fifteen
   Parables of which it consists [2786] were spoken after the
   Transfiguration, on the descent into the Valley of Humiliation. They
   also concern the Kingdom of God, but, although the prevailing
   characteristic is still parenetic, [2787] or, rather, Evangelic, they
   have a controversial aspect also, as against some vital, active
   opposition to the Kingdom, chiefly on the part of the Pharisees.
   Accordingly, they appear among the Discourses' of Christ, [2788] and
   are connected with the climax of Pharisaic opposition as presented in
   the charge, in its most fully developed form, that Jesus was, so to
   speak, the Incarnation of Satan, the constant medium and vehicle of his
   activity. [2789] This was the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost. All the
   Parables spoken at that period bear more or less direct reference to
   it, though, as already stated, as yet in positive rather than negative
   form, the Evangelic element in them bing primary, and the judicial only
   secondary.

   This order is reversed in the third series, consisting of eight
   Parables. [2790]   Here the controversial has not only the ascendency
   over the Evangelic element, but the tone has become judicial, and the
   Evangelic element appears chiefly in the form of certain predictions
   connected with the coming end. The Kingdom of God is presented in its
   final stage of ingathering, separation, reward and loss, as, indeed, we
   might expect in the teaching of the Lord immediately before His final
   rejection by Israel and betrayal into the hands of the Gentiles.

   This internal connection between the Parables and the History of Christ
   best explains their meaning. Their artificial grouping (as by mostly
   all modern critics [2791] ) is too ingenious to be true. One thing,
   however, is common to all the Parables, and forms a point of connection
   between them. They are all occasioned by some unreceptiveness on the
   part of the hearers, and that, even when the hearers are professing
   disciples. This seems indicated in the reason assigned by Christ to the
   disciples for His use of parabolic teaching: that unto them it was
   given to know the mystery of the Kingdom of God, but unto them it was
   that are without, all these things are done in parables.' [2792] And
   this may lead up to such general remarks on the Parables as are
   necessary for their understanding.

   Little information is to be gained from discussing the etymology of the
   word Parable. [2793] The verb from which it is derived means to
   project; and the term itself, the placing of one thing by the side of
   another. Perhaps no other mode of teaching was so common among the Jews
   [2794] as that by Parables. Only in their case, they were almost
   entirely illustrations of what had been said or taught; [2795] while,
   in the case of Christ, they served as the foundation for His teaching.
   In the one case, the light of earth was cast heavenwards, in the other,
   that of heaven earthwards; in the one case, it was intended to make
   spiritual teaching appear Jewish and national, in the other to convey
   spiritual teaching in a form adapted to the standpoint of the hearers.
   This distinction will be found to hold true, even in instances where
   there seems the closest parallelism between a Rabbinic and an Evangelic
   Parable. On further examination, the difference between them will
   appear not merely one of degree, but of kind, or rather of standpoint.
   This may be illustrated by the Parable of the woman who made anxious
   search for her lost coin, [2796] which there is an almost literal
   Jewish parallel. [2797] But, whereas in the Jewish Parable the moral
   is, that a man ought to take much greater pains in the study of the
   Torah than in the search for coin, since the former procures an eternal
   reward, while the coin would, if found, at most only procure temporary
   enjoyment, the Parable of Christ is intended to set forth, not the
   merit of study or of works, but the compassion of the Saviour in
   seeking the lost, and the joy of Heaven in his recovery. It need
   scarcely be said, that comparison between such Parables, as regards
   their spirit, is scarcely possible, except by way of contrast. [2798]

   But, to return. In Jewish writings a Parable (Mimshal, Mashal, Mathla)
   is introduced by some such formula as this: I will tell thee a parable'
   ({hebrew}) To what is the thing like? To one,' &c. Often it begins more
   briefly, thus: A Parable. To what is the thing like?' or else, simply:
   To what is the thing like?' Sometimes even this is omitted and the
   Parable is indicated by the preposition to' at the beginning of the
   illustrative story. Jewish writers extol Parables, as placing the
   meaning of the Law within range of the comprehension of all men. The
   wise King' had introduced this method, the usefulness of which is
   illustrated by the Parable of a great palace which had many doors, so
   that people lost their way in it, till one came who fastened a ball of
   thread at the chief entrance, when all could readily find their way in
   and out. [2799] Even this will illustrate what has been said of the
   difference between Rabbinic Parables and those employed by our Lord.

   The general distinction between a Parable and a Proverb, Fable and
   Allegory, cannot here be discussed at length. [2800] It will
   sufficiently appear from the character and the characteristics of the
   Parables of our Lord. That designation is, indeed, sometimes applied to
   what are not Parables, in the strictest sense; while it is wanting
   where we might have expected it. Thus, in the Synoptic Gospels
   illustrations, [2801] and even proverbial sayings, such as Physician,
   heal thyself,' [2802] or that about the blind leading the blind, [2803]
   are designated Parables. Again, the term Parable,' although used in our
   Authorised Version, does not occur in the original of St. John's
   Gospel; and this, although not a few illustrations used in that Gospel
   might, on superficial examination, appear to be Parables. The term
   must, therefore, be here restricted to special conditions. The first of
   these is, that all Parables bear reference to well-known scenes, such
   as those of daily life; or to events, either real, or such as every one
   would expect in given circumstances, or as would be in accordance with
   prevailing notions. [2804]

   Such pictures, familiar to the popular mind, are in the Parable
   connected with corresponding spiritual realities. Yet, here also, there
   is that which distinguishes the Parable from the mere illustration. The
   latter conveys no more than - perhaps not so much as - that which was
   to be illustrated; while the Parable conveys this and a great deal
   beyond it to those, who can follow up its shadows to the light by which
   they have been cast. In truth, Parables are the outlined shadows -
   large, perhaps, and dim - as the light of heavenly things falls on
   well-known scenes, which correspond to, and have their higher
   counterpart in spiritual realities. For, earth and heaven are
   twin-parts of His works. And, as the same law, so the same order,
   prevails in them; and they form a grand unity in their relation to the
   Living God Who reigneth. And, just as there is ultimately but one Law,
   one Force, one Life, which, variously working, effects and affects all
   the Phenomenal in the material universe, however diverse it may seem,
   so is there but one Law and Life as regards the intellectual, moral -
   nay, and the spiritual. One Law, Force, and Life, binding the earthly
   and the heavenly into a Grand Unity - the outcome of the Divine Unity,
   of which it is the manifestation. Thus things in earth and heaven are
   kindred, and the one may become to us Parables of the other. And so, if
   the place of our resting be Bethel, they become Jacob's ladder, by
   which those from heaven come down to earth, and those from earth ascend
   to heaven.

   Another characteristic of the Parables, in the stricter sense, is that
   in them the whole picture or narrative is used in illustration of some
   heavenly teaching, and not merely one feature or phase of it, [2805] as
   in some of the parabolic illustrations and proverbs of the Synoptists,
   or the parabolic narratives of the Fourth Gospel. Thus, in the
   parabolic illustrations about the new piece of cloth on the old
   garment, [2806] about the blind leading the blind, [2807] about the
   forth-putting of leaves on the fig-tree; [2808] or in the parabolic
   proverb, Physician, heal thyself;' [2809] or in such parabolic
   narratives of St. John, as about the Good Shepherd, [2810] or the Vine,
   [2811] in each case, only one part is selected as parabolic. On the
   other hand, even in the shortest Parables, such as those of the seed
   growing secretly, [2812] the leaven in the meal, [2813] and the pearl
   of great price, [2814] the picture is complete, and has not only in one
   feature, but in its whole bearing, a counterpart in spiritual
   realities. But, as shown in the Parable of the seed growing secretly,
   [2815] it is not necessary that the Parable should always contain some
   narrative, provided that not only one feature, but the whole thing
   related, have its spiritual application.

   In view of what has been explained, the arrangement of the Parables
   into symbolical and typical [2816] can only apply to their form, not
   their substance. In the first of these classes a scene from nature or
   from life serves as basis for exhibiting the corresponding spiritual
   reality. In the latter, what is related serves as type (tpos), not in
   the ordinary sense of that term, but in that not unfrequent in
   Scripture: as example - whether for imitation, [2817] or in warning.
   [2818] In the typical Parables the illustration lies, so to speak, on
   the outside; in the symbolical, within the narrative or scene. The
   former are to be applied; the latter must be explained.

   It is here that the characteristic difference between the various
   classes of hearers lay. All the Parables, indeed, implied some
   background of opposition, or else of unreceptiveness. In the record of
   this first series of them, [2819] the fact that Jesus spake to the
   people in Parables, [2820] and only in Parables, [2821] is strongly
   marked. It appears, therefore, to have been the first time that this
   mode of popular teaching was adopted by him. [2822] Accordingly, the
   disciples not only expressed their astonishment, but inquired the
   reason of this novel method. [2823] The answer of the Lord makes a
   distinction between those to whom it is given to know the mysteries of
   the Kingdom, and those to whom all things were done in Parables. But,
   evidently, this method of teaching could not have been adopted for the
   people, in contradistinction to the disciples, and as a judicial
   measure, since even in the first series of Parables three were
   addressed to the disciples, after the people had been dismissed. [2824]
   On the other hand, in answer to the disciples, the Lord specially marks
   this as the difference between the teaching vouchsafed to them and the
   Parables spoken to the people, that the designed effect of the latter
   was judicial: to complete that hardening which, in its commencement,
   had been caused by their voluntary rejection of what they had heard.
   [2825] But, as not only the people, but the disciples also, were taught
   by Parables, the hardening effect must not be ascribed to the parabolic
   mode of teaching, now for the first time adopted by Christ. Nor is it a
   sufficient answer to the question, by what this darkening effect, and
   hence hardening influence, of the Parable on the people was caused,
   that the first series, addressed to the multitude, [2826] consisted of
   a cumulation of Parables, without any hint as to their meaning or
   interpretation. [2827] For, irrespective of other considerations, these
   Parables were at least as easily understood as those spoken immediately
   afterwards to the disciples, on which, similarly, no comment was given
   by Jesus. On the other hand, to us at least, it seems clear, that the
   ground of the different effect of the Parables on the unbelieving
   multitude and on the believing disciples was not objective, or caused
   by the substance or form of these Parables, but subjective, being
   caused by the different standpoint of the two classes of hearers toward
   the Kingdom of God.

   This explanation removes what otherwise would be a serious difficulty.
   For, it seems impossible to believe, that Jesus had adopted a special
   mode of teaching for the purpose of concealing the truth, which might
   have saved those who heard Him. His words, indeed, indicate that such
   was the effect of the Parables. But they also indicate, with at least
   equal clearness, that the cause of this hardening lay, not in the
   parabolic method of teaching, but in the state of spiritual
   insensibility at which, by their own guilt, they had previously
   arrived. Through this, what might, and, in other circumstances, would,
   have conveyed spiritual instruction, necessarily became that which
   still further and fatally darkened and dulled their minds and hearts.
   Thus, their own hardening merged into the judgment of hardening. [2828]

   We are now in some measure able to understand, why Christ now for the
   first time adopted parabolic teaching. Its reason lay in the altered
   circumstances of the case. All his former teaching had been plain,
   although initial. In it He had set forth by Word, and exhibited by fact
   (in miracles), that Kingdom of God which He had come to open to all
   believers. The hearers had now ranged themselves into two parties.
   Those who, whether temporarily or permanently (as the result would
   show), had admitted these premisses, so far as they understood them,
   were His professing disciples. On the other hand, the Pharisaic party
   had now devised a consistent theory, according to which the acts, and
   hence also the teaching, of Jesus, were of Satanic origin. Christ must
   still preach the Kingdom; for that purpose had he come into the world.
   Only, the presentation of that Kingdom must now be for decision. It
   must separate the two classes, leading the one to clearer understanding
   of the mysteries of the Kingdom - of what not only seems, but to our
   limited thinking really is, mysterious; while the other class of
   hearers would now regard these mysteries as wholly unintelligible,
   incredible, and to be rejected. And the ground of this lay in the
   respective positions of these two classes towards the Kingdom.
   Whosoever hath, to him shall be given, and he shall have more
   abundance; but whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken away even
   that he hath.' And the mysterious manner in which they were presented
   in Parables was alike suited to, and corresponded with, the character
   of these mysteries of the Kingdom,' now set forth, not for initial
   instruction, but for final decision. As the light from heaven falls on
   earthly objects, the shadows are cast. But our perception of them, and
   its mode, depend on the position which we occupy relatively to that
   Light.

   And so it was not only best, but most merciful, that these mysteries of
   substance should now, also, be presented as mysteries of form in
   Parables. Here each would see according to his standpoint towards the
   Kingdom. And this was in turn determined by previous acceptance or
   rejection of that truth, which had formerly been set forth in a plain
   form in the teaching and acting of the Christ. Thus, while to the
   opened eyes and hearing ears of the one class would be disclosed that,
   which prophets and righteous men of old had desired but not attained,
   to them who had voluntarily cast aside what they had, would only come,
   in their seeing and hearing, the final judgment of hardening. So would
   it be to each according to his standpoint. To the one would come the
   grace of final revelation, to the other the final judgment which, in
   the first place, had been of their own choice, but which, as they
   voluntarily occupied their position relatively to Christ, had grown
   into the fulfilment of the terrible prediction of Esaias concerning the
   final hardening of Israel. [2829]

   Thus much in general explanation. The record of the first series of
   Parables [2830] contains three separate accounts: that of the Parables
   spoken to the people; that of the reason for the use of parabolic
   teaching, and the explanation of the first Parables (both addressed to
   the disciples); and, finally, another series of Parables spoken to the
   disciples. To each of these we must briefly address ourselves.

   On that bright spring morning, when Jesus spoke from the ship' to the
   multitude that crowded the shore, He addressed to them these four
   Parables: concerning Him Who sowed, [2831] concerning the Wheat and the
   Tares, concerning the Mustard-Seed, and concerning the Leaven. The
   first, or perhaps the two first of these, must be supplemented by what
   may be designated as a fifth Parable, that of the Seed growing
   unobservedly. This is the only Parable of which St. Mark alone has
   preserved the record. [2832] All these Parables refer, as is expressly
   stated, to the Kingdom of God; that is, not to any special phase or
   characteristic of it, but to the Kingdom itself, or, in other words, to
   its history. They are all such as befit an open-air address at that
   season of the year, in that locality, and to those hearers. And yet
   there is such gradation and development in them as might well point
   upwards and onwards.

   The first Parable is that of Him Who sowed. We can almost picture to
   ourselves the Saviour seated in the prow of the boat, as He points His
   hearers to the rich plain over against Him, where the young corn, still
   in the first green of its growing, is giving promise of harvest. Like
   this is the Kingdom of Heaven which He has come to proclaim. Like what?
   Not yet like that harvest, which is still in the future, but like that
   field over there. The Sower [2833] has gone forth to sow the Good Seed.
   If we bear in mind a mode of sowing peculiar (if we are not mistaken)
   to those times, the Parable gains in vividness. According to Jewish
   authorities there was twofold sowing, as the seed was either cast by
   the hand ({hebrew}) or by means of cattle ({hebrew} [2834] ). In the
   latter case, a sack with holes was filled with corn and laid on the
   back of the animal, so that, as it moved onwards, the seed was thickly
   scattered. Thus it might well be, that it would fall indiscriminately
   on beaten roadway, [2835] on stony places but thinly covered with soil,
   or where the thorns had not been cleared away, or undergrowth from the
   thorn-hedge crept into the field, [2836] as well as on good ground. The
   result in each case need not here be repeated. But what meaning would
   all this convey to the Jewish hearers of Jesus? How could this sowing
   and growing be like the Kingdom of God? Certainly not in the sense in
   which they expected it. To them it was only a rich harvest, when all
   Israel would bear plenteous fruit. Again, what was the Seed, and who
   the Sower? or what could be meant by the various kinds of soil and
   their unproductiveness?

   To us, as explained by the Lord, all this seems plain. But to them
   there could be no possibility of understanding, but much occasion for
   misunderstanding it, unless, indeed, they stood in right relationship
   to the Kingdom of God.' The initial condition requisite was to believe
   that Jesus was the Divine Sower, and His Word the Seed of the Kingdom:
   no other Sower than He, no other Seed of the Kingdom than His Word. If
   this were admitted, they had at least the right premisses for
   understanding this mystery of the Kingdom.' According to Jewish view
   the Messiah was to appear in outward pomp, and by display of power to
   establish the Kingdom. But this was the very idea of the Kingdom, with
   which Satan had tempted Jesus at the outset of His Ministry. [2837] In
   opposition to it was this mystery of the Kingdom,' according to which
   it consisted in reception of the Seed of the Word. That reception would
   depend on the nature of the soil, that is, on the mind and heart of the
   hearers. The Kingdom of God was within: it came neither by a display of
   power, nor even by this, that Israel, or else the Gospel-hearers, were
   the field on which the Seed of the Kingdom was sown. He had brought the
   Kingdom: the Sower had gone forth to sow. This was of free grace - the
   Gospel. But the seed might fall on the roadside, and so perish without
   even springing up. Or it might fall on rocky soil, and so spring up
   rapidly, but wither before it showed promise of fruit. Or it might fall
   where thorns grew along with, and more rapidly than, it. And so it
   would, indeed, show promise of fruit; the corn might appear in the ear;
   but that fruit would not come to ripeness (bring no fruit to
   perfection' [2838] ), because the thorns growing more rapidly would
   choke the corn. Lastly, to this threefold faultiness of soil, through
   which the seed did not spring up at all, or merely sprung up, or just
   reached the promise, but not the perfection of fruit, corresponded a
   threefold degree of fruit-bearing in the soil, according to which it
   brought forth thirtyfold, sixtyfold, or an hundredfold, in the varying
   measure of its capacity.

    If even the disciples failed to comprehend the whole bearing of this
   Mystery of the Kingdom,' we can believe how utterly strange and
   un-Jewish such a Parable of the Messianic Kingdom must have sounded to
   them, who had been influenced by the Pharisaic representations of the
   Person and Teaching of Christ. And yet the while these very hearers
   were, unconsciously to themselves, fulfilling what Jesus was speaking
   to them in the Parable!

   Whether or not the Parable recorded by St. Mark alone, [2839]
   concerning the Seed growing unobservedly, was spoken afterwards in
   private to the disciples, or, as seems more likely, at the first, and
   to the people by the sea-shore, this appears the fittest place for
   inserting it. If the first Parable, concerning the Sower and the Field
   of Sowing, would prove to all who were outside the pale of discipleship
   a mystery,' while to those within it would unfold knowledge of the very
   mysteries of the Kingdom, this would even more fully be the case in
   regard to this second or supplementary Parable. In it we are only
   viewing that portion of the field, which the former Parable had
   described as good soil. So is the Kingdom of God, as if a man had cast
   the seed on the earth, and slept and rose, night and day, and the seed
   sprang up and grew: how, he knows not himself. Automatous [2840]
   [self-acting] the earth beareth fruit: first blade, then ear, then full
   wheat in the ear! But when the fruit presents itself, immediately he
   sendeth forth [2841] the sickle, because the harvest is come.' The
   meaning of all this seems plain. As the Sower, after the seed has been
   cast into the ground, can do no more; he goes to sleep at night, and
   rises by day, the seed the meanwhile growing, the Sower knows not how,
   and as his activity ceases till the time that the fruit is ripe, when
   immediately he thrusts in the sickle - so is the Kingdom of God. The
   seed is sown; but its growth goes on, dependent on the law inherent in
   seed and soil, dependent also on Heaven's blessing of sunshine and
   showers, till the moment of ripeness, when the harvest-time is come. We
   can only go about our daily work, or lie down to rest, as day and night
   alternate; we see, but know not the how of the growth of the seed. Yet,
   assuredly it will ripen, and when that moment has arrived, immediately
   the sickle is thrust in, for the harvest is come. And so also with the
   Sower. His outward activity on earth was in the sowing, and it will be
   in the harvesting. What lies between them is of that other Dispensation
   of the Spirit, till He again send forth His reapers into His field. But
   all this must have been to those without' a great mystery, in no wise
   compatible with Jewish notions; while to them within' it proved a yet
   greater, and very needful unfolding of the mysteries of the Kingdom,
   with very wide application of them.

   The mystery' is made still further mysterious, or else it is still
   further unfolded, in the next Parable concerning the Tares sown among
   the Wheat. According to the common view, these Tares represent what is
   botanically known as the bearded Darnel' (Lolium temulentum), a
   poisonous rye-grass, very common in the East, entirely like wheat until
   the ear appears,' or else (according to some), the creeping wheat' or
   couch-grass' (Triticum repens), of which the roots creep underground
   and become intertwined with those of the wheat. But the Parable gains
   in meaning if we bear in mind that, according to ancient Jewish (and,
   indeed, modern Eastern) ideas, the Tares were not of different seed,
   [2842] but only a degenerate kind of wheat. [2843] Whether in legend or
   symbol, Rabbinism has it that even the ground had been guilty of
   fornication before the judgment of the Flood, so that when wheat was
   sown tares sprang up. [2844] The Jewish hearers of Jesus would,
   therefore, think of these tares as degenerate kind of wheat, originally
   sprung at the time of the Flood, through the corruptness of the earth,
   but now, alas! so common in their fields; wholly undistinguishable from
   the wheat, till the fruit appeared: noxious, poisonous, and requiring
   to be separated from the wheat, if the latter was not to become
   useless.

   With these thoughts in mind, let us now try to realise the scene
   pictured. Once more we see the field on which the corn is growing - we
   know not how. The sowing time is past. The Kingdom of Heaven is become
   [2845] like to a man who sowed good seed in his field. But in the time
   that men sleep came his enemy and over-sowed tares [2846] in (upon) the
   midst [2847] of the wheat, and went away.' Thus far the picture is true
   to nature, since such deeds of enmity were, and still are, common in
   the East. And so matters would go on unobserved, since, whatever kind
   of tares' may be meant, it would, from their likeness, be for some time
   impossible to distinguish them from the wheat. But when the herbage
   grew and made fruit, then appeared (became manifest) also the tares.'
   What follows is equally true to fact, since, according to the testimony
   of travellers, most strenuous efforts are always made in the East to
   weed out the tares. Similarly, in the parable, the servants of the
   householder are introduced as inquiring whence these tares had come;
   and on the reply: A hostile person has done this,' they further ask:
   Wilt thou then that we go (straightway) and gather them together?' The
   absence of any reference to the rooting up or burning the tares, is
   intended to indicate, that the only object which the servants had in
   view was to keep the wheat pure and unmixed for the harvest. But this
   their final object would have been frustrated by the procedure, which
   their inconsiderate zeal suggested. It would, indeed, have been quite
   possible to distinguish the tares from the wheat - and the Parable
   proceeds on this very assumption - for, by their fruit they would be
   known. But in the present instance separation would have been
   impossible, without, at the same time, uprooting some of the wheat.
   For, the tares had been sown right into the midst, and not merely by
   the side, of the wheat; and their roots and blades must have become
   intertwined. And so they must grow together to the harvest. Then such
   danger would no longer exist, for the period of growing was past, and
   the wheat had to be gathered into the barn. Then would be the right
   time to bid the reapers first gather the tares into bundles for
   burning, that afterwards the wheat, pure and unmixed, might be stored
   in the garner.

   True to life as the picture is, yet the Parable was, of all others,
   perhaps the most un-Jewish, and therefore mysterious and
   unintelligible. Hence the disciples specially asked explanation of this
   only, which from its main subject they rightly designated as the
   Parable of the Tares.' [2848] Yet this was also perhaps the most
   important for them to understand. For already the Kingdom of Heaven is
   become like' this, although the appearance of fruit has not yet made it
   manifest, that tares have been sown right into the midst of the wheat.
   But they would soon have to learn it in bitter experience and as a
   grievous temptation, [2849] and not only as regarded the
   impressionable, fickle multitude, nor even the narrower circle of
   professing followers of Jesus, but that, alas! in their very midst
   there was a traitor And they would have to learn it more and more in
   the time to come, as we have to learn it to all ages, till the Age-' or
   Æon-completion.' [2850] Most needful, yet most mysterious also, is this
   other lesson, as the experience of the Church has shown, since almost
   every period of her history has witnessed, not only the recurrence of
   the proposal to make the wheat unmixed, while growing, by gathering out
   the tares, but actual attempts towards it. All such have proved
   failures, because the field is the wide world,' not a narrow sect;
   because the tares have been sown into the midst of the wheat, and by
   the enemy; and because, if such gathering were to take place, the roots
   and blades of tares and wheat would be found so intertwined, that harm
   would come to the wheat. But why try to gather the tares together,
   unless from undiscerning zeal? Or what have we, who are only the
   owner's servants, to do with it, since we are not bidden of Him? The
   Æon-completion' will witness the harvest, when the separation of tares
   and wheat may not only be accomplished with safety, but shall become
   necessary. For the wheat must be garnered in the heavenly storehouse,
   and the tares bound in bundles to be burned. Then the harvesters shall
   be the Angels of Christ, the gathered tares all the stumbling-blocks
   and those who do the lawlessness,' and their burning the casting of
   them into the oven of the fire.' [2851]

   More mysterious still, and, if possible, even more needful, was the
   instruction that the Enemy who sowed the tares was the Devil. To the
   Jews, nay, to us all, it may seem a mystery, that in the Messianic
   Kingdom of Heaven' there should be a mixture of tares with the wheat,
   the more mysterious, that the Baptist had predicted that the coming
   Messiah would thoroughly purge His floor. But to those who were capable
   of receiving it, it would be explained by the fact that the Devil was
   the Enemy' of Christ, and of His Kingdom, and that he had sowed those
   tares. This would, at the same time, be the most effective answer to
   the Pharisaic charge, that Jesus was the Incarnation of Satan, and the
   vehicle of his influence. And once instructed in this, they would have
   further to learn the lessons of faith and patience, connected with the
   fact that the good seed of the Kingdom grew in the field of the world,
   and hence that, by the very conditions of its existence, separation by
   the hand of man was impossible so long as the wheat was still growing.
   Yet that separation would surely be made in the great harvest, to
   certain, terrible loss of the children of the wicked one, [2852] and to
   the sun-like forthshining' in glory of the righteous in the Kingdom
   prepared by their Father.

   The first Parables were intended to present the mysteries of the
   Kingdom as illustrated by the sowing, growing, and intermixture of the
   Seed. The concluding two Parables set forth another equally mysterious
   characteristic of the Kingdom: that of its development and power, as
   contrasted with its small and weak beginnings. In the Parable of the
   Mustard-seed this is shown as regards the relation of the Kingdom to
   the outer world; in that of the Leaven, in reference to the world
   within us. The one exhibits the extensiveness, the other the
   intensiveness, of its power; in both cases at first hidden, almost
   imperceptible, and seemingly wholly inadequate to the final result.
   Once more we say it, that such Parables must have been utterly
   unintelligible to all who did not see in the humble, despised,
   Nazarene, and in His teaching, the Kingdom. But to those whose eyes,
   ears and hearts had been opened, they would carry most needed
   instruction and most precious comfort and assurance. Accordingly, we do
   not find that the disciples either asked or received an interpretation
   of these Parables.

   A few remarks will set the special meaning of these Parables more
   clearly before us. Here also the illustrations used may have been at
   hand. Close by the fields, covered with the fresh green or growing
   corn, to which Jesus had pointed, may have been the garden with its
   growing herbs, bushes and plants, and the home of the householder,
   whose wife may at that moment have been in sight, busy preparing the
   weekly provision of bread. At any rate, it is necessary to keep in mind
   the homeliness of these illustrations. The very idea of Parables
   implies, not strict scientific accuracy, but popular pictorialness. It
   is characteristic of them to present vivid sketches that appeal to the
   popular mind, and exhibit such analogies of higher truths as can be
   readily perceived by all. Those addressed were not to weigh every
   detail, either logically or scientifically, but at once to recognise
   the aptness of the illustration as presented to the popular mind. Thus,
   as regards the first of these two Parables, the seed of the
   mustard-plant passed in popular parlance as the smallest of seeds.
   [2853] In fact, the expression, small as a mustard-seed,' had become
   proverbial, and was used, not only by our Lord, [2854] but frequently
   by the Rabbis, to indicate the smallest amount, such as the least drop
   of blood, [2855] the least defilement, [2856] or the smallest remnant
   of sun-glow in the sky. [2857] But when it is grown, it is greater than
   the garden-herbs.' Indeed, it looks no longer like a large garden-herb
   or shrub, but becomes,' or rather, appears like, a tree' - as St. Luke
   puts it, a great tree,' [2858] of course, not in comparison with other
   trees, but with garden-shrubs. Such growth of the mustard seed was also
   a fact well known at the time, and, indeed, still observed in the East.
   [2859]

   This is the first and main point in the Parable. The other, concerning
   the birds which are attracted to its branches and lodge' - literally,
   make tents' [2860] - there, or else under the shadow of it, [2861] is
   subsidiary. Pictorial, of course, this trait would be, and we can the
   more readily understand that birds would be attracted to the branches
   or the shadow of the mustard-plant, when we know that mustard was in
   Palestine mixed with, or used as food for pigeons, [2862] and
   presumably would be sought by other birds. And the general meaning
   would the more easily be apprehended, that a tree, whose wide-spreading
   branches afforded lodgment to the birds of heaven, was a familiar Old
   Testament figure for a mighty kingdom that gave shelter to the nations.
   [2863] Indeed, it is specifically used as an illustration of the
   Messianic Kingdom. [2864] Thus the Parable would point to this, so full
   of mystery to the Jews, so explanatory of the mystery to the disciples:
   that the Kingdom of Heaven, planted in the field of the world as the
   smallest seed, in the most humble and unpromising manner, would grow
   till it far outstripped all other similar plants, and gave shelter to
   all nations under heaven.

   To this extensive power of the Kingdom corresponded its intensive
   character, whether in the world at large or in the individual. This
   formed the subject of the last of the Parables addressed at this time
   to the people - that of the Leaven. We need not here resort to
   ingenious methods of explaining the three measures,' or Seahs, of meal
   in which the leaven was hid. Three Seahs were an Ephah, [2865] of which
   the exact capacity differed in various districts. According to the
   so-called wilderness,' or original Biblical, measurement, it was
   supposed to be a space holding 432 eggs, [2866] while the Jerusalem
   ephah was one-fifth, and the Sepphoris (or Galilean) ephah two-fifths,
   or, according to another authority, one-half larger. [2867] To mix
   three measures' of meal was common in Biblical, as well as in later
   times. [2868] Nothing further was therefore conveyed than the common
   process of ordinary, everyday life. And in this, indeed, lies the very
   point of the Parable, that the Kingdom of God, when received within,
   would seem like leaven hid, but would gradually pervade, assimilate,
   and transform the whole of our common life.

   With this most un-Jewish, and, to the unbelieving multitude, most
   mysterious characterisation of the Kingdom of Heaven, the Saviour
   dismissed the people. Enough had been said to them and for them, if
   they had but ears to hear. And now He was again alone with the
   disciples in the house' at Capernaum, to which they had returned.
   [2869] Many new and deeper thoughts of the Kingdom had come to them.
   But why had He so spoken to the multitude, in a manner so different, as
   regarded not only the form, but even the substance of His teaching? And
   did they quite understand its solemn meaning themselves? More
   especially, who was the enemy whose activity would threaten the safety
   of the harvest? Of that harvest they had already heard on the way
   through Samaria. [2870] And what were those tares,' which were to
   continue in their very midst till the judicial separation of the end?
   To these questions Jesus now made answer. His statement of the reason
   for adopting in the present instance the parabolic mode of teaching
   would, at the same time, give them farther insight into those very
   mysteries of the Kingdom which it had been the object of these Parables
   to set forth. [2871] His unsolicited explanation of the details of the
   first Parable would call attention to points that might readily have
   escaped their notice, but which, for warning and instruction, it most
   behooved them to keep in view.

   The understanding of the first Parable seems to have shown them, how
   much hidden meaning this teaching conveyed, and to have stimulated
   their desire for comprehending what the presence and machinations of
   the hostile Pharisees might, in some measure, lead them to perceive in
   dim outline. Yet it was not to the Pharisees that the Lord referred.
   The Enemy was the Devil; the field, the world; the good seed, the
   children of the Kingdom; the tares, the children of the Wicked One. And
   most markedly did the Lord, in this instance, not explain the Parable,
   as the first one, in its details, but only indicate, so to speak, the
   stepping-stones for its understanding. This, not only to train the
   disciples, but because - unlike the first Parable - that of the Tares
   would only in the future and increasingly unfold its meaning.

   But even this was not all. The disciples had now knowledge concerning
   the mysteries of the Kingdom. But that Kingdom was not matter of the
   understanding only, but of personal apprehension. This implied
   discovery of its value, personal acquisition of it, and surrender of
   all to its possession. And this mystery of the Kingdom was next
   conveyed to the disciples in those Parables specially addressed to, and
   suited only for, them.

   Kindred, or rather closely connected, as are the two Parables of the
   Treasure hid in the Field and of the Pearl of Great Price - now spoken
   to the disciples - their differences are sufficiently marked. In the
   first, one who must probably be regarded as intending to buy a, if not
   this, field, discovers a treasure hidden there, and in his joy parts
   with all else to become owner [2872] of the field and of the hidden
   treasure which he had so unexpectedly found. Some difficulty has been
   expressed in regard to the morality of such a transaction. In reply it
   may be observed, that it was, at least, in entire accordance with
   Jewish law. [2873] [2874] If a man had found a treasure in loose coins
   among the corn, it would certainly be his, if he bought the corn. If he
   had found it on the ground, or in the soil, it would equally certainly
   belong to him, if he could claim ownership of the soil, and even if the
   field were not his own, unless others could prove their right to it.
   The law went so far as to adjudge to the purchaser of fruits anything
   found among these fruits. This will suffice to vindicate a question of
   detail, which, in any case, should not be too closely pressed in a
   parabolic history.

   But to resume our analysis. In the second Parable we have a wise
   merchantman who travels in search of pearls, and when he finds one
   which in value exceeds all else, he returns and sells all that he has,
   in order to buy this unique gem. The supreme value of the Kingdom, the
   consequent desire to appropriate it, and the necessity of parting with
   all else for this purpose, are the points common to this and the
   previous Parable. But in the one case, it is marked that this treasure
   is hid from common view in the field, and the finder makes unexpected
   discovery of it, which fills him with joy. In the other case, the
   merchantman is, indeed, in search of pearls, but he has the wisdom to
   discover the transcendent value of this one gem, and the yet greater
   wisdom to give up all further search and to acquire it at the surrender
   of everything else. Thus, two different aspects of the Kingdom, and two
   different conditions on the part of those who, for its sake, equally
   part with all, are here set before the disciples.

   Nor was the closing Parable of the Draw-net less needful Assuredly it
   became, and would more and more become, them to know, that mere
   discipleship - mere inclusion in the Gospel-net - was not sufficient.
   That net let down into the sea of this world would include much which,
   when the net was at last drawn to shore, would prove worthless or even
   hurtful. To be a disciple, then, was not enough. Even here there would
   be separation. Not only the tares, which the Enemy had designedly sown
   into the midst of the wheat, but even much that the Gospel-net, cast
   into the sea, had inclosed, would, when brought to land, prove fit only
   to be cast away, into the oven of the fire where there is the wailing
   and the gnashing of teeth.'

   So ended that spring-day of first teaching in Parables, to the people
   by the Lake, and in the house at Capernaum to the disciples. Dim,
   shadowy outlines, growing larger and more faint in their tracings to
   the people; shadowy outlines, growing brighter and clearer to all who
   were disciples. Most wondrous instruction to all, and in all aspects of
   it; which even negative critics admit to have really formed part of
   Christ's own original teaching. But if this be the case, we have two
   questions of decisive character to ask. Undoubtedly, these Parables
   were un-Jewish. This appears, not only from a comparison with the
   Jewish views of the Kingdom, but from the fact that their meaning was
   unintelligible to the hearers of Jesus, and from this, that, rich as
   Jewish teaching is in Parables, none in the least parallel to them can
   be adduced. [2875]   Our first question, therefore, is: Whence this
   un-Jewish and anti-Jewish teaching concerning the Kingdom on the part
   of Jesus of Nazareth?

   Our second question goes still farther. For, if Jesus was not a Prophet
   - and, if a Prophet, then also the Son of God - yet no more strangely
   unexpected prophecy, minutely true in all its details, could be
   conceived, than that concerning His Kingdom which His parabolic
   description of it conveyed. Has not History, in the strange, unexpected
   fulfilling of that which no human ingenuity at the time could have
   forecast, and no pen have described with more minute accuracy of
   detail, proved Him to be more than a mere man - One sent from God, the
   Divine King of the Divine Kingdom, in all the vicissitudes which such a
   Divine Kingdom must experience when set up upon earth?
     __________________________________________________________________

   [2778] St. Matt. vii. 25.

   [2779] It adds interest to these Solomon-like lilies that the Mishnah
   designates one class of them, growing in fields and vineyards, by the
   name royal lily' (Kil. v. 8, Bab. Talmud, p. 29 a). At the same time,
   the term used by our Lord need not be confined to lilies' in the
   strictest sense. It may represent the whole wild flora of spring,
   chiefly the anemones (comp. Tristram, Nat. Hist. of the Bible, pp.
   462-465). A word with the same letters as krnos (though of different
   meaning) is the Rabbinic Narkes, the narcissus - of course that
   {hebrew} (of fields), not {hebrew} (of gardens).

   [2780] u.s. vi. 28-30.

   [2781] vii. 16-20.

   [2782] St. Matt. xiii. 1, 2.

   [2783] St. Matt. xii. 24 &c.

   [2784] This seems to be the view of Goebel in his Parabeln Jesu,' a
   book to which I would here, in general, acknowledge my obligations. The
   latest work on the subject (F. L. Steinmeyer, d. Par. d. Herrn, Berlin
   1884) is very disappointing.

   [2785] St. Matt. xiii.

   [2786] St. Luke x.-xvi., xviii., passim.

   [2787] Admonitory, hortatory - a term used in theology, of which it is
   not easy to give the exact equivalent.

   [2788] St. Luke xi.-xiv.

   [2789] St. Luke xi. 14-36; St. Matt. xii. 22-45; St. Mark iii. 22-30.

   [2790] St. Matt. xviii., xx., xxi., xxii., xxiv., xxv.; St. Luke xix.

   [2791] Even Goebel, though rightly following the purely historical
   method, has, in the interest of so-called higher criticism, attempted
   such artificial grouping.

   [2792] St. Mark iv. 11.

   [2793] From parabllo, projicio, admoveo rem rei comparationis causa
   (Grimm). Little can be learned from the classical definitions of the
   parabol. See Archbishop Trench on the Parables.

   [2794] F. L. Steinmeyer has most strangely attempted to deny this. Yet
   every ancient Rabbinic work is literally full of parables. In Sanh. 39
   b we read that R. Meir's discourses consisted in third of legal
   determinations, in third of Haggadah, and in third of parables.

   [2795] I am here referring only to the form, not the substance, of
   these Jewish parables.

   [2796] St. Luke xv. 8-10.

   [2797] In the Midrash on Cant. i. i

   [2798] It is, indeed, possible that the framework of some of Christ's
   Parables may have been adopted and adapted by later Rabbis. No one who
   knows the early intercourse between Jews and Jewish Christians would
   deny this à priori.

   [2799] Midr. on Cant. i. 1.

   [2800] I must here refer to the various Biblical Dictionaries, to
   Professor Westcott's Introduction to the Study of the Gospels (pp. 28,
   286), and to the works of Archbishop Trench and Dr. Goebel.

   [2801] St. Matt. xxiv. 32; St. Mark iii. 23; St. Luke v. 36.

   [2802] St. Luke iv. 23

   [2803] St. Matt. xv. 15

   [2804] Every reader of the Gospels will be able to distinguish these
   various classes.

   [2805] Cremer (Lex. of N.T. Greek, p. 124) lays stress on the idea of a
   comparison, which is manifestly incorrect; Goebel, with not much better
   reason, on that of a narrative form.

   [2806] St. Luke v. 36.

   [2807] St. Luke vi. 39.

   [2808] St. Matt. xxiv. 32.

   [2809] St. Luke iv. 23.

   [2810] St. John x.

   [2811] St. John xv.

   [2812] St. Mark iv. 26-29.

   [2813] St. Matt. xiii. 33.

   [2814] vv. 45, 46.

   [2815] St. Mark iv. 26-29.

   [2816] So by Goebel.

   [2817] Phil. iii 17; 1 Tim. iv. 12.

   [2818] 1 Cor. x. 6, 11.

   [2819] St. Matt. xiii.

   [2820] St. Matt. xiii. 3, and parallels.

   [2821] St. Matt. xiii. 34; St. Mark iv. 33, 34.

   [2822] In the Old Testament there are parabolic descriptions and
   utterances - especially in Ezekiel (xv.; xvi.; xvii.; xix.), and a
   fable (Judg. ix. 7-15), but only two Parables: the one typical (2 Sam.
   xii. 1-6), the other symbolical (Is. v. 1-6).

   [2823] St. Matt. xiii. 10, and parallels.

   [2824] St. Matt. xiii. 36, 44-52.

   [2825] St. Matt. xi. 13-17.

   [2826] St. Matt. xiii. 1-9, 24-33.

   [2827] So even Goebel (i. pp. 33-42, and especially p. 38.)

   [2828] St. Matt. xiii. 13-15.

   [2829] Is. vi. 9, 10.

   [2830] St. Matt. xiii.

   [2831] The correct reading in St. Matt. xiii. 18 is to sperantos, not
   sperontos as in the T. R.

   [2832] St. Mark iv. 26-29.

   [2833] With the definite article - not a Sower,' as in our A.V., but
   the Sower.

   [2834] Arach. 25 a, line 18 from bottom.

   [2835] par tn dn, not par tn grn. I cannot understand how this road
   could be within the ploughed and sowed field. Our view is further
   confirmed by St. Luke viii. 5, where the seed is described as trodden
   down' - evidently on the highway.

   [2836] Comp. the slight variations in the three Gospels.

   [2837] Comp. the chapter on the Temptation.

   [2838] St. Luke viii. 14.

   [2839] St. Mark iv. 26-29.

   [2840] I would here remark in general, that I have always adopted what
   seemed to me the best attested readings, and endeavoured to translate
   literally, preserving, where it seemed desirable, even the succession
   of the words.

   [2841] This is a Hebraism - explaining the Hebrew use of the verb
   {hebrew} in analogous circumstances.

   [2842] Kil. i. 1.

   [2843] Jer. Kil. 26 d.

   [2844] Ber. R. 28 ed. Warsh. p. 53 a, about the middle.

   [2845] The tense should here be marked.

   [2846] The Greek ziznion is represented by the Hebrew {hebrew} or
   {hebrew}.

   [2847] The expression is of great importance. The right reading is
   pspeiren (insuper sero - to sow above), not speire (sowed).

   [2848] St. Matt. xiii. 36.

   [2849] St. John vi. 66-70.

   [2850] Æon, or age,' without the article in ver. 40, and so it should
   also be in ver. 39.

   [2851] With the two articles: the well-known oven of the well-known
   fire - Gehenna.

   [2852] Without here anticipating what may have to be said as to
   Christ's teaching of the final fate of the wicked, it cannot be
   questioned that at that period the doctrine of endless punishment was
   the common belief of the Jews. I am aware, that dogmas should not be
   based upon parabolic teaching, but in the present instance the Parable
   would have been differently worded, if such dogmatic teaching had not
   been in the mind of Speaker and hearers.

   [2853] Certainly the Sinapis nigra, and not the Salvadora persica.

   [2854] St. Matt. xvii. 20.

   [2855] Ber. 31 a.

   [2856] Nidd. v. 2.

   [2857] Vayyik. R. 31, ed. Warsh., vol. iii. p. 48 a.

   [2858] St. Luke xiii. 18, 19.

   [2859] Comp. Tristram, Nat. Hist. of the Bible, p. 472. The quotations
   in Buxtorf's Lex. Rabb. pp. 822, 823, on which the supposed Rabbinic
   illustrations of the growth of the plant are based (Lightfoot,
   Schöttgen, Wetstein, even Vorstius and Winer), are wholly inapt, being
   taken from legendary descriptions of the future glory of Palestine -
   the exaggerations being of the grossest character.

   [2860] Canon Tristram's rendering of the verb (u. s. p. 473) as merely
   perching or resting does not give the real meaning of it. He has very
   aptly noticed how fond birds are of the mustard-seed.

   [2861] St. Mark iv. 32.

   [2862] Jer. Shabb. 16 c.

   [2863] Ezek. xxxi. 6, 12; Dan. iv. 12, 14, 21, 22.

   [2864] Ezek. xvii. 23.

   [2865] Men. vii.

   [2866] Erub. viii. 2; 83 a.

   [2867] Comp. Herzfeld, Handelsgesch. d. Juden, pp. 183-185.

   [2868] Comp. Gen. xviii. 6; Judg. vi. 19; 1 Sam. i. 24; Jos. Ant. ix.
   4, 5; Babha B. 9 a, &c.

   [2869] St. Matt. xiii. 36; comp. ver. 10, and St. Mark iv. 10.

   [2870] St. John iv. 35.

   [2871] On Is. lxi. 10, we read the following beautiful illustration,
   alike of the words of our Lord in St. Matt. xiii. 16, and of the
   exclamation of the woman in St. Luke xi. 27: Seven garments there are
   with which the Holy One, blessed be His Name, clothed Himself, from the
   time the world was created to the hour when He will execute punishment
   on Edom the wicked (Rome). When He created the world, He clothed
   himself with glory and splendour (Ps. civ. 1); when He manifested
   Himself by the Red Sea, He clothed Himself with majesty (Ps. xciii. 1);
   when He gave the Law, He clothed Himself with strength (ib.); when He
   forgives the iniquity of Israel, He clothes Himself in white (Dan. vii.
   9); when He executeth punishment on the nations of the world, He
   clothes himself with vengeance (Is. lix. 17). The sixth garment He will
   put on in the hour when the Messiah shall be revealed. Then shall He
   clothe Himself with righteousness (ib.). The seventh garment is when He
   taketh vengeance on Edom, then shall He be clothed in red (Is. lxiii.
   2). And the garment with which in the future He will clothe Messiah
   shall shine forth from one end of the world to the other, according to
   Is. lxi. 10. And Israel shall enjoy His light, and say, Blessed the
   hour in which Messiah was born; blessed the womb which bare Him;
   blessed the generation which seeth, blessed the eye which is deemed
   worthy to behold Him, because that the opening of His lips is blessing
   and peace, His speech rest to the soul, and security and rest are in
   His Word. And on His tongue pardon and forgiveness; His prayer the
   incense of accepted sacrifice; His entreaty holiness and purity.
   Blessed are ye Israel - what is reserved for you! Even as it is
   written' (Ps. xxxi. 20; 19 in our A. V.). (Pesiqta, ed. Bub. p. 149 a
   and b.)

   [2872] The mporos - in opposition to the kpelos, or huckster, small
   trader - is the en gros merchant who travels from place to place and
   across waters (from pros) to purchase.

   [2873] B. Mets. 25 a, b.

   [2874] But the instance quoted by Wetstein (N. Test. i. p. 407) from
   Babha Mez. 28 b is inapt, and depends on entire misunderstanding of the
   passage. The Rabbi who found the treasure, so far from claiming, urged
   its owner to take it back.

   [2875] The so-called Rabbinic illustrations are inapt, except as per
   contra. Thus, on St. Matt. xiii. 17 it is to be remarked, that in
   Rabbinic opinion revelation of God's mysteries would only be granted to
   those who were righteous or learned. The Midr. on Eccl. i. 7 contains
   the following Parable in illustration (comp. Dan. ii. 21): A matron is
   asked, to which of two that would borrow she would lend money - to a
   rich or a poor man. And when she answers: To a rich man, since even if
   he lost it, he would be able to repay, she is told that similarly God
   gives not wisdom to fools, who would employ it for theatres and baths,
   &c., but to the sages, who make use of it in the Academies. A similar
   and even more strange explanation of Exod. xv. 26 occurs Ber. 40 a,
   where it is shown that God supports the full, and not, as man, an empty
   vessel. Hence, if we begin to learn, or repeat what we have learned, we
   shall learn more, and conversely also. Further, on ver. 12 we note,
   that to have taken away what one hath' is a Jewish proverbial
   expression: that which is in their hand shall be taken from them' (Ber.
   R. 20, ed. Warsh. p. 38 b, last two lines). Expressions similar to ver.
   16 are used by the Rabbis, for ex. Chag. 14 b. In regard to ver. 17, R.
   Eliezer inferred from Exod. xv. 2 that servantmaids saw at the Red Sea
   what neither Ezekiel nor the prophets had seen, which he corroborates
   from Ezek. i. 1 and Hos. xii. 10 (Mechilta, ed. Weiss p. 44 a). Another
   and much more beautiful parallelism has been given before. On ver. 19
   it ought to be remarked that the Wicked One was not so much represented
   by the Rabbis as the Enemy of the Kingdom of God, but as that of
   individuals - indeed, was often described as identical with the evil
   impulse (Yetser haRa, comp. Chag. 16 a; B. Bathr. 16 a; Succ. 52 a). On
   ver. 22 we remark, that not riches, but poverty, was regarded by the
   Rabbis as that which choked the good seed. On ver. 39, we may remark a
   somewhat similar expression in B. Mez. 83 b: Let the Lord of the
   Vineyard come and remove the thorns.' On ver. 42, the expression oven
   of fire,' for Gehenna, is the popular Jewish one ({hebrew}). Similarly,
   the expression, gnashing of teeth,' chiefly characteristic of the anger
   and jealousy of those in Gehinnom, occurs in the Midrash on Eccl. i.
   15. On ver. 44 we refer to the remarks and note on that Parable (p.
   595). In connection with ver. 46, we remember that, in Shabb. 119 a, a
   story is told concerning a pearl for which a man had given his whole
   fortune, hoping thereby to prevent the latter being alienated from him
   (comp. Ber. R. 11). Lastly, in connection with ver. 47 we notice, that
   the comparison of men with fishes is a common Jewish one (Abod. Zar. 3
   b; 4 a).
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XXIV.
CHRIST STILLS THE STORM ON THE LAKE OF GALILEE.

   (St. Matt. viii. 18, 23-27; St. Mark iv. 35-41; St. Luke viii. 22-25.)

   IT was the evening of that day of new teaching, and once more great
   multitudes were gathering to Him. What more, or, indeed, what else,
   could He have said to those to whom He had all that morning spoken in
   Parables, which hearing they had not heard nor understood? It was this,
   rather than weariness after a long day's working, which led to the
   resolve to pass to the other side. To merely physical weariness Jesus
   never subordinated his work. If, therefore, such had been the motive,
   the proposal to withdraw for rest would have come from the disciples,
   while here the Lord Himself gave command to pass to the other side. In
   truth, after that day's teaching it was better, alike for these
   multitudes and for His disciples that He should withdraw. And so they
   took Him even as He was' - that is, probably without refreshment of
   food, or even preparation of it for the journey. This indicates how
   readily, nay, eagerly, the disciples obeyed the behest.

   Whether in their haste they heeded not the signs of the coming storm;
   whether they had the secret feeling, that ship and sea which bore such
   burden were safe from tempest; or, whether it was one of those storms
   which so often rise suddenly, and sweep with such fury over the Lake of
   Galilee, must remain undetermined. He was in the ship' [2876] - whether
   that of the sons of Jonas, or of Zebedee - the well-known boat, which
   was always ready for His service, whether as pulpit, resting-place, or
   means of journeying. But the departure had not been so rapid as to pass
   unobserved; and the ship was attended by other boats, which bore those
   that would fain follow Him. In the stern of the ship, on the low bench
   where the steersman sometimes takes rest, was pillowed the Head of
   Jesus. Weariness, faintness, hunger, exhaustion, asserted their mastery
   over His true humanity. He, Whom earliest Apostolic testimony [2877]
   proclaimed to have been in the form of God,' slept. Even this evidences
   the truth of the whole narrative. If Apostolic tradition had devised
   this narrative to exhibit His Divine Power, why represent Him as faint
   and asleep in the ship; and, if it would portray Him as deeply sleeping
   for very weariness, how could it ascribe to Him the power of stilling
   the storm by His rebuke? Each of these by themselves, but not the two
   in their combination, would be as legends are written. Their
   coincidence is due to the incidence of truth. Indeed, it is
   characteristic of the History of the Christ, and all the more
   evidential that it is so evidently undesigned in the structure of the
   narrative, that every deepest manifestation of His Humanity is
   immediately attended by highest display of His Divinity, and each
   special display of His Divine Power followed by some marks of His true
   Humanity. Assuredly, no narrative could be more consistent with the
   fundamental assumption that He is the God-Man.

   Thus viewed, the picture is unspeakably sublime. Jesus is asleep, for
   very weariness and hunger, in the stern of the ship, His head on that
   low wooden bench, while the heavens darken, the wild wind swoops down
   those mountain-gorges, howling with hungry rage over the trembling sea;
   the waves rise and toss, and lash and break over the ship, and beat
   into it, and the white foam washes at His feet His Humanity here
   appears as true as when He lay cradled in the manger; His Divinity, as
   when the sages from the East laid their offerings at His Feet. But the
   danger is increasing - so that the ship was now filling.' [2878] They
   who watched it, might be tempted to regard the peaceful rest of Jesus,
   not as indicative of Divine Majesty - as it were, sublime consciousness
   of absolute safety - because they did not fully realize Who He was. In
   that case it would, therefore, rather mean absolute weakness in not
   being able, even at such a time, to overcome the demands of our lower
   nature; real indifference, also, to their fate - not from want of
   sympathy, but of power. In short, it might lead up to the inference
   that the Christ was a no-Christ, and the Kingdom of which he had spoken
   in Parables, not His, in the sense of being identified with His Person.

   In all this we perceive already, in part, the internal connection
   between the teaching of that day and the miracle of that evening. Both
   were quite novel: the teaching by Parables, and then the help in a
   Parable. Both were founded on the Old Testament: the teaching on its
   predictions, [2879] the miracle on its proclamations of the special
   Divine Manifestations in the sea; [2880] and both show that everything
   depended on the view taken of the Person of the Christ. Further
   teaching comes to us from the details of the narrative which follows.
   It has been asked, with which of the words recorded by the Synoptists
   the disciples had wakened the Lord: with those of entreaty to save
   them, [2881] or with those of impatience, perhaps uttered by Peter
   himself? [2882] But why may not both accounts represent what had
   passed? Similarly, it has been asked, which came first - the Lord's
   rebuke of the disciples, and after it that of the wind and sea, [2883]
   or the converse? [2884] But, may it not be that each recorded that
   first which had most impressed itself on his mind? - St. Matthew, who
   had been in the ship that night, the needful rebuke to the disciples;
   St. Mark and St. Luke, who had heard it from others, [2885] the help
   first, and then the rebuke?

   Yet it is not easy to understand what the disciples had really
   expected, when they wakened the Christ with their Lord, save us - we
   perish!' Certainly, not that which actually happened, since not only
   wonder, but fear, came over them [2886] as they witnessed it. Probably
   theirs would be a vague, undefined belief in the unlimited possibility
   of all in connection with the Christ. A belief this, which seems to us
   quite natural as we think of the gradually emerging, but still
   partially cloud-capped height of His Divinity, of which, as yet, only
   the dim outlines were visible to them. A belief this, which also
   accounts for the co-existing, not of disbelief, nor even of unbelief,
   but of inability of apprehension, which, as we have seen, characterised
   the bearing of the Virgin-Mother. And it equally characterised that of
   the disciples up to the Resurrection-morning, bringing them to the
   empty tomb, and filling them with unbelieving wonder that the tomb was
   empty. Thus, we have come to that stage in the History of the Christ
   when, in opposition to the now formulated charge of His enemies as to
   His Person, neither His Teaching nor His Working could be fully
   understood, except so far as his Personality was understood - that He
   was of God and Very God. And so we are gradually reaching on towards
   the expediency and the need of the coming of the Holy Ghost to reveal
   that mystery of His Person. Similarly, the two great stages in the
   history of the Church's learning were: the first - to come to knowledge
   of what He was, by experience of what He did; the second - to come to
   experience of what He did and does, by knowledge of what He is. The
   former, which corresponds, in the Old Testament, to the patriarchal
   age, is that of the period when Jesus was on earth; the second, which
   answers to the history of Israel, is that of the period after His
   Ascension into Heaven and the Descent of the Holy Ghost.

   When He was awakened' [2887] by the voice of His disciples, He rebuked
   the wind and the sea,' as Jehovah had of old [2888] - just as He had
   rebuked' the fever, [2889] and the paroxysm of the demonised. [2890]
   For, all are His creatures, even when lashed to frenzy of the hostile
   power.' And the sea He commanded as if it were a sentient being: Be
   silent! Be silenced!' And immediately the wind was bound, the panting
   waves throbbed into stillness, and a great calm of rest fell upon the
   Lake. For, when Christ sleepeth, there is storm; when He waketh, great
   peace. But over these men who had erst wakened Him with their cry, now
   crept wonderment, awe, and fear. No longer, as at His first
   wonder-working in Capernaum, was it: What is this?' [2891] but Who,
   then, is this?' [2892] And so the grand question, which the enmity of
   the Pharisees had raised, and which, in part, had been answered in the
   Parables of teaching, was still more fully and practically met in what,
   not only to the disciples, but to all time, was a Parable of help. And
   Jesus also did wonder, but at that which alone could call forth His
   wonder - the unreachingness of their faith: where was it? and how was
   it, they had no faith?

   Thus far the history, related, often almost in the same words, by the
   three Evangelists. On all sides the narrative is admitted to form part
   of the primitive Evangelic tradition. But if so, then, even on the
   showing of our opponents, it must have had some foundation in an event
   surpassing the ordinary facts in the history of Jesus. Accordingly, of
   all negative critics, at most only two venture to dismiss it as
   unfounded on fact. But such a bold assumption would rather increase
   than diminish the difficulty. For, if legend it be, its invention and
   insertion into the primitive record must have had some historical
   reason. Such, however, it is absolutely impossible here to trace. The
   Old Testament contains no analogous history which it might have been
   wished to imitate; Jewish Messianic expectancy afforded no basis for
   it; and there is absolutely no Rabbinic parallel [2893] which could be
   placed by its side. Similar objections apply to the suggestion of
   exaggeration of some real event (Keim). For, the essence of the
   narrative lies in its details, of which the origin and the universal
   acceptance in the primitive belief of the Church have to be accounted
   for. Nor is the task of those negative critics more easy, who,
   admitting the foundation in fact for this narrative, have suggested
   various theories to account for its miraculous details. Most of these
   explanations are so unnatural, [2894] as only to point the contrast
   between the ingenuity of the nineteenth century and the simple, vivid
   language of the original narrative. For it seems equally impossible to
   regard it as based either on a misunderstanding of the words of Jesus
   during a storm (Paulus), or on the calm faith of Jesus when even the
   helmsman despaired of safety (Schenkel), or to represent it as only in
   some way a symbol of analogous mental phenomena (Ammon, Schleiermacher,
   Hase, Weiszäcker, and others). The very variety of explanations
   proposed, of which not one agrees with the others, shows, that none of
   them has proved satisfactory to any but their own inventors. And of all
   it may be said, that they have no foundation whatever in the narrative
   itself. Thus the only alternative left is either wholly to reject, or
   wholly to accept, the narrative.

   If our judgment is to be determined by the ordinary rules of historical
   criticism, we cannot long be in doubt which of these propositions is
   true. Here is a narrative, which has the consensus of the three
   Evangelists; which admittedly formed part of the original Evangelic
   tradition; for the invention of which no specific motive can possibly
   be assigned; and which is told with a simplicity of language and a
   pictorial vividness of detail that carry their own evidence. Other
   corroborative points, such as the unlikeliness of the invention of such
   a situation for the Christ, or of such bearing of the disciples, have
   been previously indicated. Absolute historical demonstration of the
   event is, of course, in the nature of things impossible. But, besides
   the congruousness to the Parabolic teaching which had preceded this
   Parabolic miracle, and the accord of the Saviour's rebuke with His mode
   of silencing the hostile elements on other occasions, some further
   considerations in evidence may be offered to the thoughtful reader.

   For, first, in this dominion over the sea,' we recognise, not only the
   fullest refutation of the Pharisaic misrepresentation of the Person of
   Christ, but the realisation in the Ideal Man of the ideal of man as
   heaven-destined, [2895] and the initial fulfilment of the promise which
   this destination implied. Creation' has, indeed, been made subject to
   vanity;' [2896] but this evil,' which implies not merely decay but
   rebellion, was directly due to the Fall of man, and will be removed at
   the final manifestation of the sons of God.' And here St. Paul so far
   stands on the same ground as Jewish theology, which also teaches that
   although all things were created in their perfectness, yet when the
   first Adam sinned, they were corrupted.' [2897] Christ's dominion over
   the sea was, therefore, only the Second and Unfallen Adam's real
   dominion over creation, and the pledge of its restoration, and of our
   dominion in the future. And this seems also to throw fresh light on
   Christ's rebuke, whether of storm, disease, or demoniac possession.
   Thus there is a grand consistency in this narrative, as regards the
   Scriptural presentation of the Christ.

   Again, the narrative expresses very markedly, that the interposition of
   Christ, alike in itself, and in the manner of it, was wholly unexpected
   by, indeed, contrary to the expectation of, the disciples. This also
   holds true in regard to other of the great manifestations of Christ, up
   to His Resurrection from the dead. This, of course, proves that the
   narrative was not founded on existing Jewish ideas. But there is more
   than this. The gratuitous introduction of traits which, so far from
   glorifying, would rather detract from a legendary Christ, while at the
   same time they seriously reflect on the disciples, presumably the
   inventors of the legend, appears to us wholly inconsistent with the
   assumption that the narrative is spurious.

   Nor ought we to overlook another circumstance. While we regard the
   narrative as that of an historical occurrence - indeed, because we do
   so - we cannot fail to perceive its permanent symbolic and typical
   bearing. It were, indeed, impossible to describe either the history of
   the Church of Christ, or the experience of individual disciples, more
   accurately, or with wider and deeper capability of application, than in
   the Parable of this Miracle. And thus it is morally true to all ages;
   just because it was historically true at the first. [2898] And as we
   enter on this field of contemplation, many views open to us. The true
   Humanity of the Saviour, by the side of His Divine Power; the sleeping
   Jesus and the Almighty Word of rebuke and command to the elements,
   which lay them down obedient at His feet: this sharp-edged contrast
   resolved into a higher unity - how true is it to the fundamental
   thought of the Gospel-History! Then this other contrast of the failure
   of faith, and then the excitement of the disciples; and of the calm of
   the sleeping, and then the Majesty of the wakening Christ. And, lastly,
   yet this third contrast of the helplessness and despondency of the
   disciples and the Divine certitude of conscious Omnipotence.

   We perceive only difficulties and the seemingly impossible, as we
   compare what may be before us with that which we consciously possess.
   He also makes this outlook: but only to know and show, that with Him
   there can be no difficulty, since all is His - and all may be ours,
   since He has come for our help and is in the ship. One thing only He
   wonders at - the shortcomings of our faith; and one thing only makes it
   impossible for Him to help - our unbelief.

   THE ASCENT: FROM THE RIVER JORDAN TO THE MOUNT OF TRANSFIGURATION
     __________________________________________________________________

   [2876] The definite article (St. Mark iv. 36) marks it as the' ship - a
   well-known boat which always bore Him.

   [2877] Phil. ii. 6.

   [2878] St. Mark iv. 37.

   [2879] Is. vi. 9, 10.

   [2880] Ps. cvi. 9; cvii. 25; Is. li. 10; Nah. i. 4-7; Hab. iii. 8.

   [2881] St. Matt. and St. Luke.

   [2882] St. Mark.

   [2883] St. Matt.

   [2884] St. Mark and St. Luke.

   [2885] St. Mark probably from St. Peter.

   [2886] From the size of these boats it seems unlikely, that any but His
   closest followers would have found room in the ship. Besides, the
   language of those who called for help and the answer of Christ imply
   the same thing.

   [2887] St. Mark iv. 38.

   [2888] Ps. cvi. 9; Nah. i. 4.

   [2889] St. Luke iv. 39.

   [2890] St. Mark ix. 25.

   [2891] St. Mark i. 27.

   [2892] So literally.

   [2893] The supposed Rabbinic parallels in Wetstein (Babha Mez. 59 b)
   and Wünsche's (Chull. 7 a) works are quite inapplicable.

   [2894] The strangest commentation, perhaps, is that of Volkmar (Marcus,
   pp. 307-312). For I cannot here perceive any kind of parallelism with
   the history of Jonah, nor yet see any references to the history of St.
   Paul's shipwreck.

   [2895] Ps. viii. 4-8.

   [2896] Rom. viii 20.

   [2897] Ber. R. 12.

   [2898] A fact may be the basis of a symbol; but a symbol can never be
   the basis of a fact. The former is the principle of Divine history, the
   latter of human legend. But, even so, legend could never have arisen
   but for a belief in Divine history: it is the counterfeit coin of
   Revelation.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XXV.
AT GERASA - THE HEALING OF THE DEMONISED.

   (St. Matt. viii. 28-34; St. Mark v. 1-20; St. Luke viii. 26-39.)

   THAT day of wonders was not yet ended. Most writers have, indeed,
   suggested, that the healing of the demonised on the other side took
   place at early dawn of the day following the storm on the Lake. But the
   distance is so short that, even making allowance for the delay by the
   tempest, the passage could scarcely have occupied the whole night.
   [2899] This supposition would be further confirmed, if the evening'
   when Jesus embarked was what the Jews were wont to call the first
   evening,' that is, the time when the sun was declining in the heaven,
   but before it had actually set, the latter time being the second
   evening.' [2900] For, it seems most unlikely that multitudes would have
   resorted to Jesus at Capernaum after the second evening,' or that
   either the disciples or other boats would have put to sea after
   nightfall. On the other hand, the scene gains in grandeur - has, so to
   speak, a fitting background - if we suppose the Saviour and His
   disciples to have landed on the other side late in the evening, when
   perhaps the silvery moon was shedding her pale light on the weird
   scene, and laying her halo around the shadows cast upon the sea by the
   steep cliff down which the herd of swine hurried and fell. This would
   also give time afterwards for the dispersion, not only into the city,'
   but into the country' of them who had fed the swine. In that case, of
   course, it would be in the early morning that the Gerasenes afterwards
   resorted to Jesus and that He again returned to Capernaum. And, lastly
   this would allow sufficient time for those miracles which took place on
   that same day in Capernaum after His return thither. Thus, all the
   circumstances lead us to regard the healing of the demonised at Gerasa
   as a night-scene, immediately on Christ's arrival from Capernaum, and
   after the calming of the storm at sea.

   It gives not only life to the narrative, but greatly illustrates it,
   that we can with confidence describe the exact place where our Lord and
   His disciples touched the other shore. The ruins right over against the
   plain of Gennesaret, which still bear the name of Kersa or Gersa, must
   represent the ancient Gerasa. [2901] This is the correct reading in St.
   Mark's, and probably in St. Luke's, perhaps also in St. Matthew's
   Gospel. [2902] The locality entirely meets the requirements of the
   narrative. About a quarter of an hour to the south of Gersa is a steep
   bluff, which descends abruptly on a narrow ledge of shore. A terrified
   herd running down this cliff could not have recovered its foothold, and
   must inevitably have been hurled into the Lake beneath. Again, the
   whole country around is burrowed with limestone caverns and
   rock-chambers for the dead, such as those which were the dwelling of
   the demonised. Altogether the scene forms a fitting background to the
   narrative.

   From these tombs the demonised, who is specially singled out by St.
   Mark and St. Luke, as well as his less prominent companion, [2903] came
   forth to meet Jesus. Much that is both erroneous and misleading has
   been written on Jewish Demonology. According to common Jewish
   superstition, the evil spirits dwelt especially in lonely desolate
   places, and also among tombs. [2904] We must here remember what has
   previously been explained as to the confusion in the consciousness of
   the demonised between their own notions and the ideas imposed on them
   by the demons. It is quite in accordance with the Jewish notions of the
   demonised, that, according to the more circumstantial account of St.
   Luke, he should feel as it were driven into the deserts, and that he
   was in the tombs, while, according to St. Mark, he was night and day in
   the tombs and in the mountains,' the very order of the words indicating
   the notion (as in Jewish belief), that it was chiefly at night that
   evil spirits were wont to haunt burying-places.

   In calling attention to this and similar particulars, we repeat, that
   this must be kept in view as characteristic of the demonised, that they
   were incapable of separating their own consciousness and ideas from the
   influence of the demon, their own identity being merged, and to that
   extent lost, in that of their tormentors. In this respect the demonised
   state was also kindred to madness. Self-consciousness, or rather what
   may be termed Individuism, i.e. the consciousness of distinct and
   independent individuality, and with it the power of self-origination in
   matters mental and moral (which some might term an aspect of free
   volition), distinguish the human soul from the mere animal spirit. But
   in maniacal disease this power is in abeyance, or temporarily lost
   through physical causes, such as disease of the brain as the medium of
   communication between the mind and the world of sense; disease of the
   nervous system, through which ordinarily impressions are conveyed to
   and from the sensorium; or disease of both brain and nervous system,
   when previously existing impressions on the brain (in memory, and hence
   possibly imagination) may be excited without corresponding outward
   causes. If in such cases the absolute power of self-origination and
   self-action is lost to the mind, habits of sin and vice (or moral
   disease) may have an analogous effect as regards moral freedom - the
   power of moral self-origination and action. In the demonised state the
   two appear combined, the cause being neither disease nor vice, but the
   presence of a superior power of evil. This loss of individuism, and the
   subjection of one's identity to that of the demon might, while it
   lasted, be called temporary possession,' in so far as the mental and
   moral condition of the person was for the time not one of freedom and
   origination, but in the control of the possessing demon.

   One practical inference may even now be drawn from this somewhat
   abstruse discussion. The language and conduct of the demonised, whether
   seemingly his own, or that of the demons who influenced him, must
   always be regarded as a mixture of the Jewish-human and the demoniacal.
   The demonised speaks and acts as a Jew under the control of a demon.
   Thus, if he chooses solitary places by day, and tombs by night, it is
   not that demons really preferred such habitations, but that the Jews
   imagined it, and that the demons, acting on the existing consciousness,
   would lead him, in accordance with his preconceived notions, to select
   such places. Here also mental disease offers points of analogy. For,
   the demonised would speak and act in accordance with his previous
   (Jewish) demonological ideas. He would not become a new man, but be the
   old man, only under the influence of the demon, just as in mania a
   person truly and consistently speaks and acts, although under the false
   impressions which a diseased brain conveys to him. The fact that in the
   demonised state a man's identity was not superseded, but controlled,
   enables us to account for many phenomena without either confounding
   demonism with mania, or else imputing to our Lord such accommodation to
   the notions of the times, as is not only untenable in itself, but
   forbidden even by the language of the present narrative.

   The description of the demonised, coming out of the tombs to meet Jesus
   as He touched the shore at Gerasa, is vivid in the extreme. His
   violence, the impossibility of control by others, [2905] the absence of
   self-control, [2906] his homicidal, [2907] and almost suicidal, [2908]
   frenzy, are all depicted. Evidently, it was the object to set forth the
   extreme degree of the demonised state. Christ, Who had been charged by
   the Pharisees with being the embodiment and messenger of Satan, is here
   face to face with the extreme manifestation of demoniac power and
   influence. It is once more, then, a Miracle in Parable which is about
   to take place. The question, which had been raised by the enemies, is
   about to be brought to the issue of a practical demonstration. We do
   not deny that the contest and the victory, this miracle, nay, the whole
   series of miracles of which it forms part, are extraordinary, even in
   the series of Christ's miracles. Our explanation proceeds on the very
   ground that such was, and must have been, the case. The teaching by
   Parables, and the parabolic miracles which follow, form, so to speak,
   an ascending climax, in contrast to the terrible charge which by-and-by
   would assume the proportions of blasphemy against the Holy Ghost, and
   issue in the betrayal and judicial murder of Jesus. There are critical
   epochs in the history of the Kingdom of God, when the power of evil,
   standing out in sharpest contrast, challenges that overwhelming
   manifestation of the Divine, as such, to bear down and crush that which
   opposes it. Periods of that kind are characterised by miraculous
   interposition of power, unique even in Bible-history. Such a period
   was, under the Old Testament, that of Elijah and Elisha, with its
   altogether exceptional series of miracles; and, under the New
   Testament, that after the first formulated charge of the Pharisees
   against the Christ.

   With irresistible power the demonised was drawn to Jesus, as He touched
   the shore at Gerasa. As always, the first effect of the contact was a
   fresh paroxysm, [2909] but in this peculiar case not physical, but
   moral. As always also, the demons knew Jesus, and His Presence seemed
   to constrain their confession of themselves - and therefore of Him. As
   in nature the introduction of a dominant element sometimes reveals the
   hidden presence of others, which are either attracted or repelled by
   it, so the Presence of Christ obliged the manifestation, and, in the
   case of these evil spirits, the self-confession, of the powers of evil.
   In some measure it is the same still. The introduction of grace brings
   to light and experience sin hitherto unknown, and the new life brings
   consciousness of, and provokes contest with, evil within, of which the
   very existence had previously been unsuspected. In the present instance
   the immediate effect was homage, [2910] which presently manifested
   itself in language such as might have been expected.

   Here also it must be remembered, that both the act of homage, or
   worship,' and the words spoken, were not the outcome either of the
   demonised only, nor yet of the demons only, but a combination of the
   two: the control of the demons being absolute over the man such as he
   was. Their language led to his worship; their feelings and fears
   appeared in his language. It was the self-confession of the demons,
   when obliged to come into His Presence and do homage, which made the
   man fall down and, in the well-known Jewish formula, recorded by the
   three Evangelists, say: What have I to do with Thee,' or rather, What
   between me and Thee' - what have we in common (Mah li valakh)?
   Similarly, although it was consciousness of subjection and fear in His
   Presence, on the part of the demons, which underlay the adjuration not
   to inflict torment on them, yet the language itself, as the text shows,
   was that of the demonised, and the form in which their fear expressed
   itself was that of his thinking. The demons, in their hold on their
   victim, could not but own their inferiority, and apprehend their defeat
   and subjection, especially on such an occasion; and the Jew, who
   consciousness was under their control - not unified, but identified
   with it - exclaimed: I adjure Thee by God, that Thou torment me not.'

   This strange mixture of the demoniac with the human, or rather, this
   expression of underlying demoniac thought in the forms and modes of
   thinking of the Jewish victim, explains the expressed fear of present
   actual torment, or, as St. Matthew, who, from the briefness of his
   account, does not seem to have been an eye-witness, expresses it: Thou
   art come to torment us before the time;' and possibly also for the
   adjuration by God.' [2911] For, as immediately on the homage and
   protestation of the demonised: What between me and Thee, Jesus, Thou
   Son of the Most High God?' Christ had commanded the unclean spirit to
   come out of the man, it may have been, that in so doing He had used the
   Name of the Most High God; or else the adjuration' itself may have been
   the form in which the Jewish speaker clothed the consciousness of the
   demons, with which his own was identified.

   It may be conjectured, that it was partly in order to break this
   identification, or rather to show the demonised that it was not real,
   and only the consequence of the control which the demons had over him,
   that the Lord asked his name. To this the man made answer, still in the
   dual consciousness, My name is Legion: for we are many.' [2912] Such
   might be the subjective motive for Christ's question. Its objective
   reason may have been to show the power of the demoniac possession in
   the present instance, thus marking it as an altogether extreme case.
   The remembrance, that the answer is once more in the forms of Jewish
   thinking, enables us to avoid the strange notion (whether it express
   the opinion of some, or the difficulties of others), that the word
   Legion' conveys the idea of six thousand armed and strong warriors of
   evil. [2913] For, it was a common Jewish idea, that, under certain
   circumstances, a legion of hurtful spirits' [2914] (of course not in
   the sense of a Roman legion) were on the watch for men, saying: When
   shall he fall into the hands of one of these things, and be taken?'
   [2915]

   This identification of the demons with the demonised, in consequence of
   which he thought with their consciousness, and they spoke not only
   through him but in his forms of thinking, may also account for the last
   and most difficult part of this narrative. Their main object and wish
   was not to be banished from the country and people, or, as St. Luke
   puts it - again to depart into the abyss.' Let us now try to realise
   the scene. On the very narrow strip of shore, between the steep cliff
   that rises in the background and the Lake, stand Jesus with His
   disciples and the demonised. The wish of the demons is not to be sent
   out of the country - not back into the abyss. The one is the cliff
   overhead, the other the Lake beneath: so, symbolically, and, to the
   demonised, really. Up on that cliff a great herd of swine is feeding;
   up that cliff, therefore, is into the swine;' and this also agrees with
   Jewish thoughts concerning uncleanness. The rendering of our Authorised
   Version, [2916] that, in reply to the demoniac entreaty, forthwith
   Jesus gave them leave,' has led to misunderstanding. The distinction
   here to be made is, though narrow, yet real and important. The verb,
   which is the same in all the three Gospels, would be better rendered by
   suffered' than by gave them leave.' With the latter we associate
   positive permission. None such was either asked or given. The Lord
   suffered it - that is, He did not actually hinder it. [2917] He only
   said unto them, Go!'

   What followed belongs to the phenomena of supersensuous influences upon
   animals, of which many instances are recorded, but the rationale of
   which it is impossible to explain. How the unclean spirits could enter
   into the swine, is a question which cannot be entertained till we shall
   know more of the animal soul than is at present within our range. This,
   however, we can understand, that under such circumstances a panic would
   seize the herd, that it would madly rush down the steep on which it
   could not arrest itself, and so perish in the sea. And this also we can
   perceive, how the real object of the demons was thus attained; how they
   did not leave the country, when Christ was entreated to leave it.

   The weird scene over which the moon had shed her ghostlike light, was
   past. The unearthly utterances of the demonised, the wild panic among
   the herd on the cliff, the mad rush down the steep, the splashing
   waters as the helpless animals were precipitated into the Lake - all
   this makes up a picture, unsurpassed for vivid, terrible realism. And
   now sudden silence has fallen on them. From above, the keepers of the
   herd had seen it all - alike what had passed with the demonised, and
   then the issue in the destruction of the herd. From the first, as they
   saw the demonised, for fear of whom no man might pass that way,'
   running to Jesus, they must have watched with eager interest. In the
   clear Eastern air not a word that was spoken could have been lost. And
   now in wild terror they fled, into Gerasa - into the country round
   about, to tell what had happened.

   It is morning, and a new morning-sacrifice and morning-Psalm are about
   to be offered. He that had erst been the possession of foul and evil
   spirits - a very legion of them - and deprived of his human
   individuality, is now sitting at the feet of Jesus,' learning of Him,
   clothed and in his right mind.' He has been brought to God, restored to
   self, to reason, and to human society - and all this by Jesus, at Whose
   Feet he is gratefully, humbly sitting, a disciple.' Is He not then the
   Very Son of God? Viewing this miracle, as an historical fact, viewing
   it as a Parabolic Miracle, viewing it also as symbolic of what has
   happened in all ages - is He not the Son of the Most High God? And is
   there not now, on His part, in the morning-light the same calmness and
   majesty of conscious Almighty Power as on the evening before, when He
   rebuked the storm and calmed the sea?

   One other point as regards the healing of this demonism deserves
   special consideration. Contrary to what was commonly the case, when the
   evil spirits came out of the demonised, there was no paroxysm of
   physical distress. Was it then so, that the more complete and lasting
   the demoniac possession, the less of purely physical symptoms attended
   it?

   But now from town and country have they come, who had been startled by
   the tidings which those who fed the swine had brought. We may contrast
   the scene with that of the shepherds when on Bethlehem's plains the
   great revelation had come to them, and they had seen the Divine Babe
   laid in the manger, and had worshipped. Far other were the tidings
   which these herdsmen brought, and their effect. It is not necessary to
   suppose, that their request that Jesus would depart out of their coasts
   was prompted only by the loss of the herd of swine. [2918] There could
   be no doubt in their minds, that One possessing supreme and unlimited
   power was in their midst. Among men superstitious, and unwilling to
   submit absolutely to the Kingdom which Christ brought, there could only
   be one effect of what they had heard, and now witnessed in the person
   of the healed demonised - awe and fear! The Depart from me, for I am a
   sinful man,' is the natural expression of a mind conscious of sin when
   brought into contact with the Divine, Whose supreme and absolute Power
   is realised as hostile. And this feeling would be greatly increased, in
   measure as the mind was under the influence of superstitious fears.

   In such place and circumstances Jesus could not have continued. And, as
   He entered the ship, the healed demonised humbly, earnestly entreated,
   that he might go with his Saviour. It would have seemed to him, as if
   he could not bear to lose his new found happiness; as if there were
   calm, safety, and happiness only in His Presence; not far from Him, not
   among those wild mountains and yet wilder men. Why should he be driven
   from His fellowship, who had so long been an outcast from that of his
   fellow-men, and why again left to himself? So, perhaps, should we have
   reasoned and spoken; so too often do we reason and speak, as regards
   ourselves or those we love. Not so He Who appoints alike our discipline
   and our work. To go back, now healed, to his own, and to publish there,
   in the city - nay, through the whole of the large district of the ten
   confederate cities, the Decapolis - how great things Jesus had done for
   him, such was henceforth to be his life-work. In this there would be
   both safety and happiness.

   And all men did marvel.' And presently Jesus Himself came back into
   that Decapolis, where the healed demonised had prepared the way for
   Him. [2919]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [2899] In the history related in St. Matt. xiv. 22, &c. the embarkation
   was much later (see next note), and it is expressly stated that the
   wind was contrary.' But even there, when it ceased they were
   immediately' on shore (St. John vi. 21), although the distance formerly
   traversed had been rather less than three-fourths of the way
   (twenty-five or thirty furlongs, St. John vi. 19). At that place the
   whole distance across would be five or six miles. But the passage from
   Capernaum to Gerasa would not be so long as that.

   [2900] The distinction between the two evenings seems marked in St.
   Matt. xiv. 15, as compared with verse 23. In both verses precisely the
   same expression is used. But between the first and the second evening a
   considerable interval of time must be placed.

   [2901] Comp. Tristram's Land of Israel,' p. 465; Bädeker's (Socin)
   Palestina, p. 267. The objection in Riehm's Handwörterb. p. 454, that
   Gerasa did not form part of the Decapolis manifestly derives no real
   support from St. Mark v. 20. The two facts are in no way inconsistent.
   All other localisations are impossible, since the text requires close
   proximity to the lake. Professor Socin describes this cliff as steep as
   nowhere else by the lake.'

   [2902] In this, as in all other instances, I can only indicate the
   critical results at which I have arrived. For the grounds, on which
   these conclusions are based, I must refer to the works which bear on
   the respective subjects.

   [2903] St. Matt. viii. 28.

   [2904] See Appendix XIII., Angelology and Demonology:' and Appendix
   XVI., Jewish Views about Demons and the Demonised.' Archdeacon Farrar
   has misunderstood the reference of Otho (Lex. Rabb. 146). The
   affections mentioned in Jer. Terum. 40 b are not treated as all
   demoniacs;' on the contrary, most of them, indeed all, with one
   exception, are expressly stated to be indications of mental disease
   (comp. also Chag. 3 b). The quotations of Gfrörer are, as too often,
   for a purpose, and untrustworthy, except after examination of the
   context.

   [2905] St. Mark v. 3, 4.

   [2906] Ware no clothes' (St. Luke viii. 27) may, however, refer only to
   the upper, not the under-garments.

   [2907] St. Matt. viii. 28.

   [2908] St. Mark v. 5.

   [2909] In his endeavour to represent the demonised state as a species
   of mania, which was affected by the Presence of Christ, Archdeacon
   Farrar makes the following statement: The presence, the look, the voice
   of Christ, even before He addressed these sufferers, seems always to
   have calmed and overawed them.' But surely the very opposite of this is
   the fact, and the first effect of contact with Christ was not calm, but
   a paroxysm.

   [2910] St. Mark v. 6; St. Luke viii. 28.

   [2911] Both St. Mark and St. Luke have it: Jesus, Son of the Most High
   God.'

   [2912] So substantially in St. Luke, as in St. Mark.

   [2913] This is one of the difficulties mentioned by Dean Plumptre.
   Archdeacon Farrar seems to think that the man imagined 6000 devils were
   in possession of his soul.' His statement, that it was a thoroughly
   Jewish belief' that unclean spirits should pass into the swine, I must
   take leave to deny. One or another disease, such as rabies, were,
   indeed, attributed by some Rabbis to the agency of evil spirits - but
   there is no ground for either the general or the specific statement of
   Dr. Farrar as regards this Jewish belief.'

   [2914] The common Rabbinic word for Legion is, indeed, Ligyon or
   Ligyona, but the expression (Ber. 51 a) {hebrew} (Istalginith) {hebrew}
   cannot mean anything else than a legion of hurtful spirits.

   [2915] Ber. 51 a.

   [2916] St. Mark v. 13.

   [2917] The verb pitrpo is used both in the active sense of permitting,
   and in that of not hindering. As to the latter use of the word, comp.
   specially St. Matt. xix. 8; St. Mark x. 4.

   [2918] This is the view of Archdeacon Farrar. The Gadara of which the
   poets Meleager and Philodemus were natives was, of course, not the
   scene of this miracle.

   [2919] As this healing of the demonised may be regarded as the
   test-case' on the general question, I have entered more fully on the
   discussion. The arguments in favour of the general view taken of the
   demonised are so clearly and forcibly stated by Archbishop Trench (on
   The Miracles') and in The Speaker's Commentary' (N. Test. vol. i. p.
   44), that it seems needless to reiterate them. To me at least it seems
   difficult to understand, how any reader of the narrative, who comes to
   it without preconceived opinions, can arrive at any other conclusion
   than that either the whole must be rejected as mythical, or else be
   received as implying that there was a demonised state, different from
   madness; that Jesus treated the present as such; bade the unclean
   spirits go out, and by His word banished them. The objection as to the
   morality of the destruction of the herd seems scarcely more weighty
   than the sneer of Strauss, that the devils must have been stupid in
   immediately destroying their new habitations. The question of morality
   cannot even be raised, since Jesus did not command - only not hinder -
   the devils entering into the swine, and as for the destruction of their
   new dwellings, so far from being stupid, it certainly did secure their
   undisturbed continuance in the country and the withdrawal of Jesus. All
   attempts to adapt this miracle to our modern experience, and the ideas
   based upon it, by leaving out or rationalising one or another trait in
   the narrative, are emphatically failures. We repeat: the history must
   be received as it stands - or wholly rejected.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XXVI.
THE HEALING OF THE WOMAN - CHRIST'S PERSONAL APPEARANCE - THE RAISING OF JAIRUS'
DAUGHTER

   (St. Matt. ix. 18-26; St. Mark v. 21-43; St. Luke viii. 40-56.)

   THERE seems remarkable correspondence between the two miracles which
   Jesus had wrought on leaving Capernaum and those which He did on His
   return. In one sense they are complementary to each other. The stilling
   of the storm and the healing of the demonised were manifestations of
   the absolute power inherent in Christ; the recovery of the woman and
   the raising of Jairus' daughter, evidence of the absolute efficacy of
   faith. The unlikeliness of dominion over the storm, and of command over
   a legion of demons, answers to that of recovery obtained in such a
   manner, and of restoration when disease had passed into actual death.
   Even the circumstances seem to correspond, though at opposite poles; in
   the one case, the Word spoken to the unconscious element, in the other
   the touch of the unconscious Christ; in the one case the absolute
   command of Christ over a world of resisting demons, in the other
   absolute certainty of faith as against the hostile element, of actual
   fact. Thus the Divine character of the Saviour appears in the
   absoluteness of His Omnipotence, and the Divine character of His
   Mission in the all-powerfulness of faith which it called forth.

   On the shore at Capernaum many were gathered on the morning after the
   storm. It may have been, that the boats which had accompanied His had
   returned to friendly shelter, ere the storm had risen to full fury, and
   had brought anxious tidings of the storm out on the Lake. There they
   were gathered now in the calm morning, friends eagerly looking out for
   the well-known boat that bore the Master and His disciples. And as it
   came in sight, making again for Capernaum, the multitude also would
   gather in waiting for the return of Him, Whose words and deeds were
   indeed mysteries, but mysteries of the Kingdom. And quickly, as He
   again stepped on the well-known shore, was He welcomed, surrounded,
   soon thronged,' inconveniently pressed upon, [2920] by the crowd,
   eager, curious, expectant. It seemed as if they had been all waiting
   for Him,' and He had been away all too long for their impatience. The
   tidings rapidly spread, and reached two homes where His help was
   needed; where, indeed, it alone could now be of possible avail. The two
   most nearly concerned must have gone to seek that help about the same
   time, and prompted by the same feelings of expectancy. Both Jairus, the
   Ruler of the Synagogue, and the woman suffering these many years from
   disease, had faith. But the weakness of the one arose from excess, and
   threatened to merge into superstition, while the weakness of the other
   was due to defect, and threatened to end in despair. In both cases
   faith had to be called out, tried, purified, and so perfected; in both
   the thing sought for was, humanely speaking, unattainable, and the
   means employed seemingly powerless; yet, in both, the outward and
   inward results required were obtained through the power of Christ, and
   by the peculiar discipline to which, in His all-wise arranging, faith
   was subjected.

   It sounds almost like a confession of absolute defeat, when negative
   critics (such as Keim) have to ground their mythical explanation of
   this history on the supposed symbolical meaning of what they designate
   as the fictitious name of the Ruler of the Synagogue - Jair, he will
   give light' [2921] - and when they [2922] further appeal to the
   correspondence between the age of the maiden and the years (twelve)
   during which the woman had suffered from the bloody flux. This
   coincidence is, indeed, so trivial as not to deserve serious notice;
   since there can be no conceivable connection between the age of the
   child and the duration of the woman's disease, nor, indeed, between the
   two cases, except in this, that both appealed to Jesus. As regards the
   name Jairus, the supposed symbolism is inapt; while internal reasons
   are opposed to the hypothesis of its fictitiousness. For, it seems most
   unlikely that St. Mark and St. Luke would have rendered the discovery
   of a myth' easy by needlessly breaking the silence of St. Matthew, and
   giving the name of so well-known a person as a Synagogue-ruler of
   Capernaum. And this the more readily, that the name, though occurring
   in the Old Testament, and in the ranks of the Nationalist party in the
   last Jewish War, [2923] was apparently not a common one. [2924] But
   these are comparatively small difficulties in the way of the mythical
   interpretation.

   Jairus, one of the Synagogue-rulers [2925] of Capernaum, had an only
   daughter, [2926] who at the time of this narrative had just passed
   childhood, and reached the period when Jewish Law declared a woman of
   age. [2927] Although St. Matthew, contracting the whole narrative into
   briefest summary, speaks of her as dead at the time of Jarius'
   application to Jesus, the other two Evangelists, giving fuller details,
   describe her as on the point of death, literally, at the last breath'
   (in extremis). [2928] Unless her disease had been both sudden and
   exceedingly rapid, which is barely possible, it is difficult to
   understand why her father had not on the previous day applied to Jesus,
   if his faith had been such as is generally supposed. But if, as the
   whole tenour of the history shows, his faith had been only general and
   scarcely formed, we can account the more easily for the delay. Only in
   the hour of supreme need, when his only child lay dying, did he resort
   to Jesus. There was need to perfect such faith, on the one side into
   perseverance of assurance, and on the other into energy of
   trustfulness. The one was accomplished through the delay caused by the
   application of the woman, the other by the supervention of death during
   this interval.

   There was nothing unnatural or un-Jewish in the application of this
   Ruler to Jesus. He must have known of the healing of the son of the
   Court-official, and of the servant of the Centurion, there or in the
   immediate neighbourhood - as it was said, by the mere word of Christ.
   For there had been no imposition of silence in regard to them, even had
   such been possible. Yet in both cases the recovery might be ascribed by
   some to coincidence, by others to answer of prayer. And perhaps this
   may help us to understand one of the reasons for the prohibition of
   telling what had been done by Jesus, while in other instances silence
   was not enjoined. Of course, there were occasions - such as the raising
   of the young man at Nain and of Lazarus - when the miracle was done so
   publicly, that a command of this kind would have been impossible. But
   in other cases may this not be the line of demarcation, that silence
   was not enjoined when a result was achieved which, according to the
   notions of the time, might have been attributed to other than direct
   Divine Power, while in the latter cases [2929] publicity was (whenever
   possible) forbidden? And this for the twofold reason, that Christ's
   Miracles were intended to aid, not to supersede, faith; to direct to
   the Person and Teaching of Christ, as that which proved the benefit to
   be real and Divine; not to excite the carnal Jewish expectancies of the
   people, but to lead in humble discipleship to the Feet of Jesus. In
   short, if only those were made known which would not necessarily imply
   Divine Power (according to Jewish notions), then would not only the
   distraction and tumult of popular excitement be avoided, but in each
   case faith in the Person of Christ be still required, ere the miracles
   were received as evidence of His Divine claims. [2930] And this need of
   faith was the main point.

   That, in view of his child's imminent death, and with the knowledge he
   had of the mighty deeds' commonly reported of Jesus, Jairus should have
   applied to Him, can the less surprise us, when we remember how often
   Jesus must, with consent and by invitation of this Ruler, have spoken
   in the Synagogue; and what irresistible impression His words had made.
   It is not necessary to suppose, that Jairus was among those elders of
   the Jews who interceded for the Centurion; the form of his present
   application seems rather opposed to it. But after all, there was
   nothing in what he said which a Jew in those days might not have spoken
   to a Rabbi, who was regarded as Jesus must have been by all in
   Capernaum who believed not the horrible charge, which the Judæan
   Pharisees had just raised. Though we cannot point to any instance where
   the laying on of a great Rabbi's hands was sought for healing, such,
   combined with prayer, would certainly be in entire accordance with
   Jewish views at the time. The confidence in the result, expressed by
   the father in the accounts of St. Mark and St. Matthew, is not
   mentioned by St. Luke. And perhaps, as being the language of an
   Eastern, it should not be taken in its strict literality as indicating
   actual conviction on the part of Jairus, that the laying on of Christ's
   Hands would certainly restore the maiden.

   Be this as it may, when Jesus followed the Ruler to his house, the
   multitude thronging Him' in eager curiosity, another approached Him
   from out that crowd, whose inner history was far different from that of
   Jairus. The disease from which this woman had suffered for twelve years
   would render her Levitically unclean.' It must have been not unfrequent
   in Palestine, and proved as intractable as modern science has found it,
   to judge by the number and variety of remedies prescribed, and by their
   character. On one leaf of the Talmud [2931] not less than eleven
   different remedies are proposed, of which at most only six can possibly
   be regarded as astringents or tonics, while the rest are merely the
   outcome of superstition, to which resort is had in the absence of
   knowledge. [2932] But what possesses real interest is, that, in all
   cases where astringents or tonics are prescribed, it is ordered, that,
   while the woman takes the remedy, she is to be addressed in the words:
   Arise (Qum) from thy flux.' It is not only that psychical means are
   apparently to accompany the therapeutical in this disease, but the
   coincidence in the command, Arise (Qum), with the words used by Christ
   in raising Jairus' daughter is striking. But here also we mark only
   contrast to the magical cures of the Rabbis. For Jesus neither used
   remedies, nor spoke the word Qum to her who had come in the press
   behind' to touch for her healing the fringe of His outer garment.'

   As this is almost the only occasion on which we can obtain a glimpse of
   Christ's outward appearance and garb, it may be well to form such
   accurate conception of it, as is afforded by a knowledge of the dress
   of the ancient Hebrews. The Rabbis laid it down as a rule, that the
   learned ought to be most careful in their dress. It was a disgrace if a
   scholar walked abroad with clouted shoes; [2933] to wear dirty clothes
   deserved death; [2934] for the glory of God was man, and the glory of
   man was his dress.' [2935] This held specially true of the Rabbi, whose
   appearance might otherwise reflect on the theological profession. It
   was the general rule to eat and drink below (or else according to) a
   man's means, but to dress and lodge above them. [2936] [2937] For, in
   these four things a man's character might be learned; at his cups, in
   many matters, when he was angry and by his ragged dress. [2938] Nay,
   The clothing of the wife of a Chabher (learned associate) is of greater
   importance than the life of the ignorant (rustic), for the sake of the
   dignity of the learned' [2939] Accordingly, the Rabbis were wont to
   wear such dress by which they might be distinguished. At a latter
   period they seem at their ordination to have been occasionally arrayed
   in a mantle of gold-stuff. [2940] Perhaps a distinctive garment, most
   likely a head-gear, was worn, even by rulers' (the elder,'{hebrew}), at
   their ordination. [2941] The Palestinian Nasi, or President of the
   Sanhedrin, also had a distinctive dress, [2942] and the head of the
   Jewish community in Babylon a distinctive girdle. [2943] [2944]

   In referring to the dress which may on a Sabbath be saved from a
   burning house - not, indeed, by carrying it, but by successively
   putting it on, no fewer than eighteen articles are mentioned. [2945] If
   the meaning of all the terms could be accurately ascertained, we should
   know precisely what the Jews in the second century, and presumably
   earlier, wore, from the shoes and stockings on their feet to the gloves
   [2946] on the hands. Unfortunately, many of these designations are in
   dispute. Nor must it be thought that, because there are eighteen names,
   the dress of an Israelite consisted of so many separate pieces. Several
   of them apply to different shapes or kinds of the same under or upper
   garments, while the list indicates their extreme number and variety
   rather than the ordinary dress worn. The latter consisted, to judge by
   the directions given for undressing and dressing in the bathroom, of
   six, or perhaps more generally, of five articles: the shoes, the
   head-covering, the Tallith or upper cloak, the girdle, the Chaluq or
   under-dress, and the Aphqarsin or innermost covering. [2947] As
   regarded shoes, a man should sell his very roof-tree for them, [2948]
   although he might have to part with them for food if he were in a weak
   condition through blood-letting. [2949] But it was not the practice to
   provide more than one pair of shoes, [2950] and to this may have
   referred the injunction [2951] of Christ to the Apostle not to provide
   shoes for their journey, or else to the well-known distinction between
   shoes (Manalim) and sandals (Sandalim). The former, which were
   sometimes made of very coarse material, covered the whole foot, and
   were specially intended for winter or rainy weather; while the sandals,
   which only protected the soles and sides of the feet, were specially
   far summer use. [2952]

   In regard to the covering of the head, it was deemed a mark of
   disrespect to walk abroad, or to pass a person, with bared head. [2953]
   Slaves covered their heads in presence of their heads in presence of
   their masters, and the Targum Onkelos indicates Israel's freedom by
   paraphrasing the expression they went out with a high hand' [2954] by
   with uncovered head' [2955] The ordinary covering of the head was the
   so-called Sudar (or Sudarimn), a kerchief twisted into a turban, and
   which might also be worn round the neck. A kind of hat was also in use,
   either of light material or of felt (Aphilyon shel rosh or Philyon).
   [2956] The Sudar was twisted by Rabbis in a peculiar manner to
   distinguish them from others. [2957] We read besides of a sort of cap
   or hood attached to garments.

   Three, or else four articles commonly constituted the dress of the
   body. First came the under-grment, commonly the Chaluq of the Kittuna
   [2958] (The Biblical Kethoneth), from which latter some have derived
   the word cotton.' The Chaluq might be of linen or of wool. [2959] The
   sages wore it down to the feet. It was covered by the upper garment or
   Tallith to within about a handbreadth. [2960] The Chaluq lay close to
   the body, and had no other opening than that round the neck and for the
   arms. At the bottom it had a kind of hem. To posses only one such coat'
   or inner garment was a mark of poverty. [2961] Hence, when the Apostles
   were sent on their temporary mission, they were directed not to take
   two coats.' [2962] Closely similar to, if not identical with, the
   Chaluq, was the ancient garment mentioned in the Old Testament as
   Kethoneth, to which the Greek Chiton' (chitn) corresponds. As the
   garment which our Lord wore, [2963] [2964] and those of which He spoke
   to His Apostles are designated by that name, we conclude that it
   represents the well-know Kethoneth or Rabbinic Kittuna. This might be
   of almost any material, even leather, though it was generally of wool
   or flax. It was sleeved, close-fitting, reached to the ankles, and was
   fastened round the loins, or just under the breast, [2965] by a girdle.
   One kind of the latter, the Pundah or Aphundah, [2966] was provided
   with pockets or other receptacles, [2967] and hence might not be worn
   outside by those who went into the Temple, [2968] probably to indicate
   that he who went to worship should not be engaged in, nor bear mark of,
   any other occupation.

   Of the two other garments mentioned as parts of a man's toilette, the
   Aphqarsin or Aphikarsus seems to have been an article of luxury rather
   than of necessity. Its precise purpose is difficult to determine. A
   comparison of the passages in which the term occurs conveys the
   impression, that it was a large kerchief used partly as a head-gear,
   and which hung down and was fastened under the right arm. [2969] [2970]
   Probably it was also used for the upper part of the body. But the
   circumstance that, unlike the other articles of dress, it need not be
   rent in mourning, [2971] and that, when worn by females, it was
   regarded as a mark of wealth, [2972] shows that it was not a necessary
   article of dress, and hence that, in all likelihood, it was not worn by
   Christ. It was otherwise with the upper garment. Various shapes and
   kinds of such were in use, from the coarser Boresin and Bardesin - the
   modern Burnoose - upwards. The Gelima was a cloak of which the border,'
   or hem,' is specially mentioned ({hebrew}). [2973] The Gunda was a
   peculiarly Pharisaic garb. [2974] But the upper garment which Jesus
   wore would be either the so-called Goltha, or, most likely, the
   Tallith. Both the Goltha [2975] and the Tallith [2976] were provided,
   on the four borders, with the so-called Tsitsith, or fringes.' These
   were attached to the four corners of the outer dress, in supposed
   fulfilment of the command, Numb. xv. 38-41; Deut. xxii. 12. At first,
   this observance seems to have been comparatively simple. The question
   as to the number of filaments on these frings' was settled in
   accordance with the teaching of the School of Shammai. Four filaments
   (not three, as the Hillelites proposed), each of four finger-lengths
   (these, as later tradition put it, doubled), and attached to the four
   corners of what must be a strictly square garment - such were the
   earliest rules on the subject. [2977] The Mishnah leaves it still a
   comparatively open question, whether these filaments were to be blue or
   white. [2978] But the Targum makes a strong point of it as between
   Moses and Korah, that there was to be a filament of hyacinth colour
   among four of white. [2979] It seems even to imply the peculiar
   symbolical mode of knotting them at present in use. [2980] Further
   symbolic details were, of course, added in the course of time. [2981]
   As these fringes were attached to the corners of any square garment,
   the question, whether the upper garment which Jesus wore was the Goltha
   or the Tallith, is of secondary importance. But as all that concerns
   His Sacred Person is of deepest interest, we may be allowed to state
   our belief in favour of the Tallith. Both are mentioned as distinctive
   dresses of teachers, but the Goltha (so far as it differed from the
   Tallith) seems the more peculiarly Rabbinic.

   We can now form an approximate idea of the outward appearance of Jesus
   on that spring-morning amidst the throng at Capernaum. He would, we may
   safely assume, go about in the ordinary, although not in the more
   ostentatious, dress, worn by the Jewish teachers of Galilee. His
   head-gear would probably be the Sudar (Sudarium) would into a kind of
   turban, or perhaps the Maaphoreth, [2982] which seems to have served as
   a covering for the head, and to have descended over the back of the
   neck and shoulders, somewhat like the Indian pugaree. His feet were
   probably shod with sandals. The Chaluq, or more probably the Kittuna,
   which formed his inner garment, must have been close-fitting, and
   descended to His feet, since it was not only so worn by teachers, but
   was regarded as absolutely necessary for any one who would publicly
   read or Targum' the Scriptures, or exercise any function in the
   Synagogue. [2983] As we know, it was without seam, woven from the top
   throughout;' [2984] and this closely accords with the texture of these
   garments. Round the middle it would be fastened with a girdle. [2985]
   Over this inner, He would most probably wear the square outer garment,
   or Tallith, with the customary fringes of four long white threads with
   one of hyacinth knotted together on each of the four corners. There is
   reason to believe, that three square garments were made with these
   fringes,' although, by way of ostentation, the Pharisees made them
   particularly wide so as to attract attention, just as they made their
   phylacteries broad. [2986] Although Christ only denounced the latter
   practice, not the phylacteries themselves, it is impossible to believe
   that Himself ever wore them, either on the forehead or the arm. [2987]
   There was certainly no warrant for them in Holy Scripture, and only
   Pharisee externalism could represent their use as fulfilling the import
   of Exod. xiii. 9, 16; Deut. vi. 8; xi. 18. The admission that neither
   the officiating priests, nor the representatives of the people, wore
   them in the Temple, [2988] seems to imply that this practice was not
   quite universal. For our part, we refuse to believe that Jesus, like
   the Pharisees, appeared wearing phylacteries every day and all day
   long, or at least a great part of the day. For such was the ancient
   custom, and not merely; as the modern practice, to wear them only at
   prayer. [2989]

   One further remark may be allowed before dismissing this subject. Our
   inquiries enable us in this matter also to confirm the accuracy of the
   Fourth Gospel. We read [2990] that the quaternion of soldiers who
   crucified Christ made division of the riches of His poverty, taking
   each one part of His dress, while for the fifth, which, if divided,
   would have had to be rent in pieces, they cast lots. This incidental
   remark carries evidence of the Judæan authorship of the Gospel in the
   accurate knowledge which it displays. The four pieces of dress to be
   divided would be the head-gear, the more expensive sandals or shoes,
   the long girdle, and the coarse Tallith - all about equal in value.
   [2991] And the fifth undivided and, comparatively, most expensive
   garment. without seam, woven from the top throughout,' probably of
   wool, as befitted the season of the year, was the Kittuna, or inner
   garment. How strange, that, what would have been of such priceless
   value to Christendom, should have been divided as the poor booty of a
   rough, unappreciative soldiery! Yet how well for us, since not even the
   sternest warning could have kept within the bounds of mere reverence
   the veneration with which we should have viewed and handled that which
   He wore, Who died for us on the Cross.

   Can we, then, wonder that this Jewish woman, having heard the things
   concerning Jesus,' with her imperfect knowledge, in the weakness of her
   strong faith, thought that, if she might but touch His garment, she
   would be made whole? It is but what we ourselves might think, if He
   were still walking on earth among men: it is but what, in some form or
   other, we still feel when in the weakness - the rebound or diastole -
   of our faith it seems to us, as if the want of this touch in not
   outwardly-perceived help or Presence left us miserable and sick, while
   even one real touch, if it were only of His garment, one real act of
   contact, however mediate, would bring us perfect healing. And in some
   sense it really is so. For, assuredly, the Lord cannot be touched by
   disease and misery, without healing coming from Him, for He is the
   God-Man. And He is also the loving, pitying Saviour. Who disdains not,
   nor turns from our weakness in the manifestation of our faith, even as
   He turned not from hers who touched His garment for her healing.

   We can picture her to our minds as, mingling with those who thronged
   and pressed upon the Lord, she put forth her hand and touched the
   border of His garment,' most probably [2992] the long Tsitsith of one
   of the corners of the Tallith. We can understand how, with a disease
   which not only rendered her Levitically defiling, but where womanly
   shamefacedness would make public speech so difficult, she, thinking of
   Him Whose Word, spoken at a distance, had brought healing, might thus
   seek to have her heart's desire. What strong faith to expect help where
   all human help, so long and earnestly sought, had so signally failed!
   And what strong faith to expect, that even contact with Him, the bare
   touch of His garment, would carry such Divine Power as to make her
   whole.' Yet in this very strength lay also its weakness. She believed
   so much in Him, that she felt as if it needed not personal appeal to
   Him; she felt so deeply the hindrances to her making request of
   Himself, that, believing so strongly in Him, she deemed it sufficient
   to touch, not even Himself, but that which in itself had no power nor
   value, except as it was in contact with His Divine Person. But it is
   here that her faith was beset by two-fold danger. In its excess it
   might degenerate into superstition, as trees in their vigour put forth
   shoots, which, unless they be cut off, will prevent the fruit-bearing,
   and even exhaust the life of the tree. Not the garments in which He
   appeared among men, and which touched His Sacred Body, nor even that
   Body, but Himself brings healing. Again, there was the danger of losing
   sight of that which, as the moral element, is necessary in faith:
   personal application to, and personal contact with, Christ.

   And so it is to us also. As we realise the Mystery of the Incarnation,
   His love towards, and His Presence with, His own, and the Divine Power
   of the Christ, we cannot think too highly of all that is, or brings, in
   contact with Him. The Church, the Sacraments, the Apostolic Ministry of
   His Institution - in a word, the grand historic Church, which is alike
   His Dwelling-place, His Witness, and His Representative on earth, ever
   since He instituted it, endowed it with the gift of the Holy Spirit,
   and hallowed it by the fulfilled promise of His Eternal Presence, is to
   us what the garment He wore was to her who touched Him. We shall think
   highly of all this in measure as we consciously think highly of Him.
   His Bride the Church; the Sacraments which are the fellowship of His
   Body and Blood, of His Crucifixion and Resurrection; the Ministry and
   Embassy of Him, committed to the Apostles, and ever since continued
   with such direction and promise, cannot be of secondary importance -
   must be very real and full of power, since they are so connected, and
   bring us into such connection with Him: the spirituo-physical points of
   contact between Him, Who is the God-man, and those who, being men, are
   also the children of God. Yet in this strength of our faith may also
   lie its danger if not its weakness. Through excess it may pass into
   superstition, which is the attachment of power to anything other than
   the Living God; or else, in the consciousness of our great disease,
   want of courage might deprive faith of its moral element in personal
   dealing and personal contact with Christ.

   Very significantly to us who, in our foolish judging and merciless
   condemning of one another, ever re-enacted the Parable of the Two
   Debtors, the Lord did not, as Pseudo-orthodoxy would prescribe it,
   disappoint her faith for the weakness of its manifestation. To have
   disappointed her faith, which was born of such high thoughts of Him,
   would have been to deny Himself - and he cannot deny Himself. But very
   significantly, also, while He disappointed not her faith, He corrected
   the error of its direction and manifestation. And to this His
   subsequent bearing toward her was directed. No sooner had she so
   touched the border of His garment than she knew in the body that she
   was healed of the scourge.' [2993] No sooner, also, had she so touched
   the border of His garment than He knew, perceived in Himself,' what had
   taken place: the forthgoing of the Power that is from out of Him.
   [2994]

   Taking this narrative in its true literality, there is no reason to
   overweight and mar it by adding what is not conveyed in the text. There
   is nothing in the language of St. Mark [2995] (as correctly rendered),
   nor of St. Luke, to oblige us to conclude that this forthgoing of
   Power, which He perceived in Himself, had been through an act, of the
   full meaning of which Christ was unconscious - in other words, that He
   was ignorant of the person who, and the reason why, she Had touched
   Him. In short, the forthgoing of the Power that is out of Him' was
   neither unconscious nor unwilled on His part. It was caused by her
   faith, not by her touch. Thy faith hath made thee whole.' And the
   question of Jesus could not have been misleading, when straightway'
   [2996] He turned Him about in the crowd and said, Who touched My
   garments?' That He knew who had done it, and only wished, through
   self-confession, to bring her to clearness in the exercise of her
   faith, appears from what is immediately added: And He looked round
   about,' not to see who had done it, but to see her that had done this
   thing.' And as His look of unspoken appeal was at last fixed on her
   alone in all that crowd, which, as Peter rightly said, was thronging
   and pressing Him, the woman saw that she was not hid,' [2997] and came
   forward to make full confession. Thus, while in His mercy He had borne
   with her weakness, and in His faithfulness not disappointed her faith,
   its twofold error was also corrected. She learned that it was not from
   the garment, but from the Saviour, that the Power proceeded; she
   learned also, that it was not the touch of it, but the faith in Him,
   that made whole - and such faith must ever be of personal dealing with
   Him. And so He spoke to her the Word of twofold help and assurance: Thy
   faith hath made thee whole - go forth into peace, [2998] and be healed
   of thy scourge.'

   Brief as is the record of this occurrence, it must have caused
   considerable delay in the progress of our Lord to the house of Jairus.
   For in the interval the maiden, who had been at the last gasp when her
   father went to entreat the help of Jesus, had not only died, but the
   house of mourning was already filled with relatives, hired mourners,
   wailing women, and musicians, in preparation for the funeral. The
   intentional delay of Jesus when summoned to Lazarus [2999] leads us to
   ask, whether similar purpose may not have influenced His conduct in the
   present instance. But even were it otherwise, no outcome of God's
   Providence is of chance, but each is designed. The circumstances, which
   in their concurrence make up an event, may all be of natural
   occurrence, but their conjunction is of Divine ordering and to a higher
   purpose, and this constitutes Divine Providence. It was in the interval
   of this delay that the messengers came, who informed Jairus of the
   actual death of his child. Jesus overheard [3000] it, as they whispered
   to the Ruler not to trouble the Rabbi any further, [3001] but He heeded
   it not, save so far as it affected the father. The emphatic admonition,
   not to fear, only to believe, gives us an insight into the threatening
   failure of the Ruler's faith; perhaps, also, into the motive which
   prompted the delay of Christ. The utmost need, which would henceforth
   require the utmost faith on the part of Jairus had now come. But into
   that, which was to pass within the house, no stranger must intrude.
   Even of the Apostles only those, who now for the first time became, and
   henceforth continued, the innermost circle, [3002] might witness,
   without present danger to themselves or others, what was about to take
   place. How Jesus dismissed the multitude, or else kept them at bay, or
   where He parted from all his disciples except Peter, James, and John,
   does not clearly appear, and, indeed, is of no importance. He may have
   left the nine Apostles with the people, or outside the house, or parted
   from them in the courtyard of Jairus' house before he entered the inner
   apartments. [3003]

   Within, the tumult' and weeping, the wail of the mourners, real or
   hired, and the melancholy sound of the mourning flutes [3004] - sad
   preparation for, and pageantry of, an Eastern funeral - broke with
   dismal discord on the majestic calm of assured victory over death, with
   which Jesus had entered the house of mourning. But even so He would
   tell it them, as so often in like circumstances He tells it to us, that
   the damsel was not dead, but only sleeping. The Rabbis also frequently
   have the expression to sleep' (demakh {hebrew}, or {hebrew}, when the
   sleep is overpowering and oppressive), instead of to die.' It may well
   have been that Jesus made use of this word of double meaning in some
   such manner as this: Talyetha dimkhath, the maiden sleepeth.' And they
   understood Him well in their own way, yet understood Him not at all.

   As so many of those who now hear this word, they to whom it was then
   spoken, in their coarse realism, laughed Him to scorn. For did they not
   verily know that she had actually died, even before the messengers had
   been despatched to prevent the needless trouble of His coming? Yet even
   this their scorn served a higher purpose. For it showed these two
   things: that to the certain belief of those in the house the maiden was
   really dead, and that the Gospel-writers regarded the raising of the
   dead as not only beyond the ordinary range of Messianic activity, but
   as something miraculous even among the miracles of Christ. And this
   also is evidential, at least so far as to prove that the writers
   recorded the event not lightly, but with full knowledge of the demand
   which it makes on our faith.

   The first thing to be done by Christ was to put out' the mourners,
   whose proper place this house no longer was, and who by their conduct
   had proved themselves unfit to be witnesses of Christ's great
   manifestation. The impression which the narrative leaves on the mind
   is, that all this while the father of the maiden was stupefied,
   passive, rather than active in the matter. The great fear, which had
   come upon him when the messengers apprised him of his only child's
   death, seemed still to numb his faith. He followed Christ without
   taking any part in what happened; he witnessed the pageantry of the
   approaching obsequies in his house without interfering; he heard the
   scorn which Christ's majestic declaration of the victory over death
   provoked, without checking it. The fire of his faith was that of dimly
   burning flax.' [3005] But He will not quench' it.

   He now led the father and the mother into the chamber where the dead
   maiden lay, followed by the three Apostles, witnesses of His chiefest
   working and of His utmost earthly glory, but also of His inmost
   sufferings. Without doubt or hesitation He took her by the hand and
   spoke only these two words: Talyetha Qum [Kum] ({hebrew} [3006] ),
   Maiden, arise! And straightway the damsel arose.' But the great
   astonishment which came upon them, as well as the strait charge' that
   no man should know it, are further evidence, if such were required, how
   little their faith had been prepared for that which in its weakness was
   granted to it. And thus Jesus, as He had formerly corrected in the
   woman that weakness of faith which came through very excess, so now in
   the Ruler of the Synagogue the weakness which was by failure. And so He
   hath done all things well: He maketh even the deaf to hear, and the
   dumb to speak.' [3007]

   How Jesus conveyed Himself away, whether through another entrance into
   the house, or by the road of the roofs,' we are not told. But
   assuredly, He must have avoided the multitude. Presently we find Him
   far from Capernaum. Probably He had left it immediately on quitting the
   house of Jairus. But what of that multitude? The tidings must have
   speedily reached them, that the daughter of the Synagogue-Ruler was not
   dead. Yet it had been straitly charged that none of them should be
   informed, how it had come to pass that she lived. They were then with
   this intended mystery before them. She was not dead: thus much was
   certain. The Christ had, ere leaving that chamber, given command that
   meat should be brought her; and, as that direction must have been
   carried out by one of the attendants, this would become immediately
   known to all that household. Had she then not really died, but only
   been sleeping? Did Christ's words of double meaning refer to literal
   sleep? Here then was another Parable of twofold different bearing: to
   them that had hearts to understand, and to them who understood not. In
   any case, their former scorn had been misplaced; in any case, the
   Teacher of Nazareth was far other than all the Rabbis. In what Name,
   and by what Power, did He come and act? Who was He really? Had they but
   known of the Talyetha Qum,' and how these two words had burst open the
   two-leaved doors of death and Hades! Nay, but it would have only ended
   in utter excitement and complete misunderstanding, to the final
   impossibility of the carrying out of Christ's Mission. For, the full as
   well as the true knowledge, that He was the Son of God, could only come
   after His contest and suffering. And our faith also in Him is first of
   the suffering Saviour, and then of the Son of God. Thus was it also
   from the first. It was through what He did for them that they learned
   Who He was. Had it been otherwise, the full blaze of the Sun's glory
   would have so dazzled them, that they could not have seen the Cross.

   Yet to all time has this question engaged the minds of men: Was the
   maiden really dead, or did she only sleep? With it this other and
   kindred one is connected: Was the healing of the woman miraculous, or
   only caused by the influence of mind over body, such as is not
   unfrequently witnessed, and such as explains modern so-called
   miraculous cures, where only superstition perceives supernatural
   agency? But these very words Influence of mind over body,' with which
   we are so familiar, are they not, so to speak, symbolic and typical? Do
   they not point to the possibility, and, beyond it, to the fact of such
   influence of the God-Man, of the command which he wielded over the
   body? May not command of soul over body be part of unfallen Man's
   original inheritance; all most fully realised in the Perfect Man, the
   God-Man, to Whom has been given the absolute rule of all things, and
   Who has it in virtue of His Nature? These are only dim feelings after
   possible higher truths.

   No one who carefully reads this history can doubt, that the
   Evangelists, at least, viewed this healing as a real miracle, and
   intended to tell it as such. Even the statement of Christ, that by the
   forthgoing of Power He knew the moment when the woman touched the hem
   of His garment, would render impossible the view of certain critics
   (Keim and others), that the cure was the effect of natural causes:
   expectation acting through the imagination on the nervous system, and
   so producing the physical results. But even so, and while these writers
   reiterate certain old cavils [3008] propounded by Strauss, and by him
   often derived from the ancient armoury of our own Deists (such as
   Woolston), they admit being so impressed with the simple,' natural,'
   and life-like' cast of the narrative, that they contend for its
   historic truth. But the great leader of negativism, Strauss, has shown
   that any natural explanation of the event is opposed to the whole
   tenour of the narrative, indeed of the Gospel-history; so that the
   alternative is its simple acceptance or its rejection. Strauss boldly
   decides for the latter, but in so doing is met by the obvious
   objection, that his denial does not rest on any historical foundation.
   We can understand, how a legend could gather around historical facts
   and embellish them, but not how a narrative so entirely without
   precedent in the Old Testament, and so opposed, not only to the common
   Messianic expectation, but to Jewish thought, could have been invented
   to glorify a Jewish Messiah. [3009]

   As regards the restoration to life of Jairus' daughter, there is a like
   difference in the negative school (between Keim and Strauss). One party
   insists that the maiden only seemed, but was not really dead, a view
   open also to this objection, that it is manifestly impossible by such
   devices to account for the raising of the young man at Nain, or that of
   Lazarus. On the other hand, Strauss treats the whole as a myth. It is
   well, that in this case, he should have condescended to argument in
   support of his view, appealing to the expectancy created by like
   miracles of Elijah and Elisha, and to the general belief at that time,
   that the Messiah would raise the dead. For, the admitted differences
   between the recorded circumstances of the miracles of Elijah and Elisha
   and those of Christ are so great, that another negative critic (Keim)
   finds proof of imitation in their contrasts! [3010] But the appeal to
   Jewish belief at that time tells, if possible, even more strongly
   against the hypothesis in question (of Keim and Strauss). It is, to say
   the least, doubtful whether Jewish theology generally ascribed to the
   Messiah the raising of the dead. [3011] There are isolated statements
   to that effect, but the majority of opinions is, that God would Himself
   raise the dead. But even those passages in which this is attributed to
   the Messiah tell against the assertions of Strauss. For, the
   resurrection to which they refer is that of all the dead (whether at
   the end of the present age, or of the world), and not of single
   individuals. To the latter there is not the faintest allusion in Jewish
   writings, and it may be safely asserted that such a dogma would have
   been foreign, even incongruous, to Jewish theology.

   The unpleasant task of stating and refuting these objections seemed
   necessary, if only to show that, as of old so now, this history cannot
   be either explained or accounted for. It must be accepted or rejected,
   accordingly as we think of Christ. Admittedly, it formed part of the
   original tradition and belief of the Church. And it is recorded with
   such details of names, circumstances, time and place, as almost to
   court inquiry, and to render fraud well-nigh impossible. And it is so
   recorded by all the three Evangelists, with such variations, or rather,
   additions, of details as only to confirm the credibility of the
   narrators, by showing their independence of each other. Lastly, it fits
   into the whole history of the Christ, and into this special period of
   it; and it sets before us the Christ and His bearing in a manner, which
   we instinctively feel to be accordant with what we know and expect.
   Assuredly, it implies determined rejection of the claims of the Christ,
   and that on grounds, not of history, but of preconceived opinions
   hostile to the Gospel, not to see and adore in it the full
   manifestation of the Divine Saviour of the world, Who hath abolished
   death, and hath brought life and immortality to light through the
   Gospel.' [3012] And with this belief our highest thoughts of the
   potential for humanity, and our dearest hopes for ourselves and those
   we love, are inseparably connected.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [2920] comp. St. Luke viii. 45; St. Mark v. 31.

   [2921] Jesu v. Nazar. ii. 2, p. 472.

   [2922] Strauss, Leben Jesu ii. p. 135.

   [2923] Jos. Jewish War vi. 1. 8, close.

   [2924] The name, a well-known O.T. one (Numb. xxxii. 41; Judg., x. 3),
   does not occur in Rabbinic literature till after the Middle Ages.

   [2925] Keim starts the theory that, according to St. Matthew, Jairus
   was an rchon in the sense of a civil magistrate. This, in order to make
   St. Matthew contradict St. Mark and St. Luke, as if rchon were not one
   of the most common designations of Synagogue-rulers.

   [2926] The particulars of her history must be gathered from a
   comparison of the three Gospels.

   [2927] A woman came of age at twelve years and one day, and boys at
   thirteen years and one day.

   [2928] Godet points out a like summarisation in St. Matthew's account
   of the Centurion's servant.

   [2929] The following are the instances in which silence was enjoined: -
   St. Matt. viii. 4 (St. Mark i. 44; St. Luke v. 14); St. Matt. ix. 30;
   xii. 16; St. Mark iii. 12; v. 43 (St. Luke viii. 56); St. Mark vii. 36;
   viii. 26.

   [2930] In general, we would once more thus formulate our views: In the
   Days of Christ men learned first to believe in His Person, and then in
   His Word; in the Dispensation of the Holy Spirit we learr first to
   believe in His Word, and then in His Person.

   [2931] Shabb. 110 a and b.

   [2932] Such as the ashes of an Ostrich-Egg, carried in summer in a
   linen, in winter in a cotton rag; or a barley-corn found in the dung of
   a white she-ass, &c.

   [2933] In Ber. 43 b, it is explained to refer to such shoes as had
   clouts on the top of clouts.'

   [2934] Shabb. 114 a.

   [2935] Derekh Erets s. x towards the end.

   [2936] Babha Mez. 52 a; Chull. 84 b.

   [2937] Accordingly, when a person applied for relief in food, inquiry
   was be made as to his means, but not if he applied for raiment (Babha B
   9 a).

   [2938] Erub. 65 b.

   [2939] Jer. Horay. 48 a, 4 lines from bottom.

   [2940] Babha Mez. 85 a.

   [2941] But I admit that the passage (Vayyik. R. 2) is not quite clear.
   The Maaphoreth there mentioned may not have been an official dress, but
   one which the man otherwise used, and which was only specially endeared
   to him by the recollection that he had worn it at his ordination.

   [2942] Ber. 28 a.

   [2943] Horay. 13 b.

   [2944] In general, I would here acknowledge my indebtedness on the very
   difficult subject of dress to Sachs, Beiträge z. Sprach- u.
   Alterth.-Forsch.; to the Articles in Levy's Dictionaries; and
   especially to Brüll, Trachten d. Juden. The Article in Hamburger's
   Real-Encykl. is little more than a repetition of Brüll's. From other
   writers I have not been able to derive any help.

   [2945] Shabb. 120 a; Jer. Shabb. 15 d.

   [2946] So Landau renders one of the words in Shabb. 120 a. I need
   scarcely say that the rendering is very doubtful.

   [2947] Deiekh Erest R. x p. 33 d.

   [2948] Brüll regards this as controversial to the practices of the
   early Christians. But he confounds sects with the Church.

   [2949] Shabb. 129 a; comp. Pes. 112 a.

   [2950] Jer. Shabb. vi. 2.

   [2951] St. Matt. x. 10.

   [2952] B. Bathra 58 a, lines 2 and 3 from top.

   [2953] On the other hand, to walk about with shoes loosed was regarded
   as a mark of pride.

   [2954] Exod. xiv. 8.

   [2955] The like expression occurs in the Targum on Judg. v. 9.

   [2956] Kel. xxix. 1.

   [2957] Pes. 111 b. See also the somewhat profane etymology of {hebrew}
   in Shabb. 77 b, {hebrew}.

   [2958] Also, Kittanitha, and Kittunita.

   [2959] Jer. Shan. 20 c, bottom.

   [2960] Baha B. 57 b.

   [2961] Meod. K.14 a.

   [2962] St. Matt. x. 10, and parallels.

   [2963] St. John xix. 23.

   [2964] As to the mode of weaving such garments, see the pictorial
   illustration in Braunius, Vest. Sacred. Hebræor., which is reproduced,
   with full details for various other works, in Hartmanns Hebr. am Putzt.
   vol. i., explanatory notes being added at the beginning of vol. iii.
   Sammter's note in his edition of B. Mezia, p. 151 a, is only a
   reproduction of Hartmann's remarks.

   [2965] Comp. Rev. i. 13.

   [2966] It was worn outside (Jer. Ber. 14 c, top). This is the girdle
   which was not to be worn in the Temple, probably as being that of a
   person engaged in business.

   [2967] This is the explanation of the Aruch (ed. Landau, i. p. 157 b).

   [2968] Jer. Ber. 14 c, top.

   [2969] Kel. xxix. 1; Ber. 23 b; 24 b, in the sense of kerchief worn in
   an accessible position; Pesiqt. 15 b, as lying close to the body and
   yet contracting dust; Jer. Ber. 4 c, line 14 from top, as used for
   wrapping the upper part of the body.

   [2970] This passage is both curious and difficult. It seems to imply
   that the Aphqarsin was a garment worn in summer, close to the body, and
   having sleeves.

   [2971] Jer. Moed, K. 83 d.

   [2972] Nidd. 48 b.

   [2973] Sanh. 102 b, and often.

   [2974] Sot. 22 b.

   [2975] Jer, Sanh. 28 c.

   [2976] Menach. 37 b.

   [2977] Siphré, ed. Friedmann, p. 117 a.

   [2978] Menach. iv. 1.

   [2979] Targ. Ps.-Jon. on Numb. xvi. 2.

   [2980] u. s. on Numb. xv. 38.

   [2981] The number of knots and threads at present counted are, of
   course, later additions. The little tractate Tsitsith Kirchheim, Septem
   Libri Talm. P. pp. 22-24 is merely a summary. The various authorities
   on the subject - and not a few have been consulted - are more or less
   wanting in clearness and defective. Comp. p. 277, note 2, of this
   volume.

   [2982] The difference between it and the Aphqarsin seems to be, that
   the latter was worn and fastened inside the dress. The Maaphoreth would
   in some measure combine the uses of the Sudar and the Aphqarsin.

   [2983] Tos. Megill. iv. p. 45 b, lines 17 and 16 from bottom.

   [2984] St. John xix. 23.

   [2985] Canon Westcott (Speaker's Comment. on St. John xix. 23) seems to
   imply that the girdle was worn outside the loose outer garment. This
   was not the case.

   [2986] St. Matt. xviii. 5.

   [2987] On this subject I must take leave to refer to the Bibl.
   Cyclopaedias and to Sketches of Jewish Social Life,' pp. 220-224.

   [2988] Zebhach. 19 a, b.

   [2989] As the question is of considerable practical importance, the
   following, as bearing upon it, may be noticed. From Jer. Ber. 4 c, we
   gather: 1. That at one time it was the practice to wear the
   phylacteries all day long, in order to pass as pious. This is denounced
   as a mark of hypocrisy. 2. That it was settled, that phylacteries
   should be worn during a considerable part of the day, but not the whole
   day. [In Ber. 23 a to 24 a we have rules and discussions about
   depositing them under certain circumstances, and where to place them at
   night.] 3. That it was deemed objectionable to wear them only during
   prayer. 4. That celebrated Rabbis did not deem it necessary always to
   wear the phylacteries both on the head and on the arm. This seems to
   prove that their obligation could not have been regarded as absolutely
   binding. Thus, R. Jochanan wore those for the head only in winter, but
   not in summer, because then he did not wear a headgear. As another
   illustration, that the wearing of phylacteries was not deemed
   absolutely requisite, the following passage may be quoted (Sanh. xi.
   3): It is more culpable to transgress the words of the Scribes than
   those of the Torah.' He that says, There are no phylacteries,
   transgresses the word of the Torah, and is not to be regarded as a
   rebel (literally, is free); but he who says, There are five
   compartments (instead of four), to add to the words of the Scribes, he
   is guilty.

   [2990] St. John xix. 23.

   [2991] I find that the lowest price mentioned for an upper garment was
   7½ dinars, or about 4s. 7d. (Jer. Kilay. ix. 1). The more common price,
   however, seems to have been 12 dinars, or about 7s. 6d. The cost of
   making seems to have been 8 dinars, or about 5s. (Jer. Babha Mets. vi.
   1), leaving 4 dinars, or 2s. 6d., for the material. Of course, the
   latter might be much more expensive, and the cost of the garment
   increased accordingly.

   [2992] This, however, does not necessarily follow, although in New
   Testament language kraspedon seems to bear that meaning. Comp. the
   excellent work of Braunius (Vest. Sac. Heb. pp. 72, 73 - not p. 55, as
   Schleusner notes).

   [2993] So literally in St. Mark's Gospel.

   [2994] This gives the full meaning - but it is difficult to give a
   literal translation which would give the entire meaning of the
   original.

   [2995] The Revised Version renders it: And straightway Jesus,
   perceiving in Himself that the power proceeding from Him had gone
   forth, turned Him about.' Mark the position of the first comma. In the
   Speaker's Commentary it is rendered: And immediately Jesus, having
   perceived in Himself that the virtue had gone forth from Him.' Dean
   Plumptre translates: Knowing fully in Himself the virtue that had gone
   out from Him.'

   [2996] The arrangement of the words in the A.V. is entirely misleading.
   The word immediately' refers to His turning round, not to His
   perceiving in Himself.

   [2997] St. Luke viii. 47.

   [2998] So literally.

   [2999] St. John xi. 6.

   [3000] I adopt the reading parakosas which seems to me better rendered
   by overhearing' than by not heeding,' as in the Revised Version.

   [3001] The word unquestionably means, literally, Teacher - but in the
   sense of Rabbi, or Master.

   [3002] Those who believe in an antiPetrine' tendency in the Gospel by
   St. Luke must find it difficult to account for the prominence given to
   him in the Third Gospel.

   [3003] I confess myself unable to see any real discrepancy between the
   accounts of St. Mark and St. Luke, such as Strauss, Keim, and others
   have tried to establish. In St. Mark it is: He suffered no man to
   accompany Him' (whither?); in St. Luke: He suffered not any man to
   enter in with Him.'

   [3004] They are specially called flutes for the dead' (B. Mez. vi. 1):
   {hebrew}.

   [3005] Is. xlii. 3.

   [3006] The reading which accordingly seems best is that adopted by
   Westcott and Hort, Taleith kom. The Aramaic or Rabbinic for maiden is
   either Talyetha or Talyutha ({hebrew}). In the second Targum on Esther
   ii. 7, 8, the reading is {hebrew} (Talutha), where Levy conjectures the
   reading {hebrew} (Talitha) or else Talyetha. The latter seems also the
   proper equivalent of taleith, while the reading Talitha' is very
   uncertain. As regards the second word, qum [pronounced kum], most
   writers have, without difficulty, shown that it should be qumi, not
   qum. Nevertheless, the same command is spelt {hebrew} in the Talmud (as
   it is pronounced in the Syriac) when a woman is addressed. In Shabb.
   110 b, the command qum, as addressed to a woman suffering from a bloody
   flux, occurs not less than seven times in that one page ({hebrew}).

   [3007] St. Mark vii. 37.

   [3008] We cannot call the trivial objections urged other than cavils.'

   [3009] According to Eusebius (Hist. Eccl. vii. 18) there was a statue
   in Paneas in commemoration of this event, which was said to have been
   erected by this woman to Christ.

   [3010] Jesu v. Nazar. ii. 2, p. 475.

   [3011] The passage which Strauss quotes from Bertholdt (Christol. Jud.
   p. 179), is from a later Midrash, that on Proverbs. No one would think
   of deriving purely Jewish doctrine either from the Sohar or from IV.
   Esdras, which is of post-Christian date, and strongly tinged with
   Christian elements. Other passages, however, might be quoted in favour
   of this view (comp. Weber, Altsynagog. Theol. pp. 351, 352), and on the
   other side, Hamburger, Real-Encykl. (II. Abth. Belebung der Todten').
   The matter will be discussed in the sequel.

   [3012] 2 Tim. i. 10.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XXVII.
SECOND VISIT TO NAZARETH - THE MISSION OF THE TWELVE.

   (St. Matt. xiii. 54-58; x. 1, 5-42; xi. 1; St. Mark vi. 1-13; St. Luke
   ix. 1-6.)

   It almost seems, as if the departure of Jesus from Capernaum marked a
   crisis in the history of that town. From henceforth it ceases to be the
   center of His activity, and is only occasionally, and in passing,
   visited. Indeed, the concentration and growing power of Pharisaic
   opposition, and the proximity of Herod's residence at Tiberias [3013]
   would have rendered a permanent stay there impossible at this stage in
   our Lord's history. Henceforth, His Life is, indeed, not purely
   missionary, but He has no certain dwelling-place: in the sublime pathos
   of His own language, He hath not where to lay His Head.'

   The notice in St. Mark's Gospel, [3014] that His disciples followed
   Him, seems to connect the arrival of Jesus in His own country' (at
   Nazareth) with the departure from the house of Jairus, into which He
   had allowed only three of His Apostles to accompany Him. The
   circumstances of the present visit, as well as the tone of His
   countrymen at this time, are entirely different from what is recorded
   of His former sojourn at Nazareth. [3015] [3016] The tenacious
   narrowness, and the prejudices, so characteristic of such a town, with
   its cliques and petty family-pride, all the more self-asserting that
   the gradation would be almost imperceptible to an outsider, are, of
   course, the same as on the former visit of Jesus. Nazareth would have
   ceased to be Nazareth, had its people felt or spoken otherwise than
   nine or ten months before. That His fame had so grown in the interval,
   would only stimulate the conceit of the village-town to try, as it
   were, to construct the great Prophet out of its own building materials,
   with this additional gratification that He was thoroughly their own,
   and that they possessed even better materials in their Nazareth. All
   this is so quite according to life, that the substantial repetition of
   the former scene in the Synagogue, so far from surprising us, seems
   only natural. What surprises us is, what He marvelled at: the unbelief
   of Nazareth, which lay at the foundation of its estimate and treatment
   of Jesus.

   Upon their own showing their unbelief was most unwarrantable. If ever
   men had the means of testing the claims of Jesus, the Nazarenes
   possessed them. True, they were ignorant of the miraculous event of His
   Incarnation; and we can now perceive at least one of the reasons for
   the mystery, which was allowed to enwrap it, as well as the higher
   purpose in Divine Providence of His being born, not in Nazareth, but in
   Bethlehem of Judæa, and of the interval of time between that Birth and
   the return of His parents from Egypt to Nazareth. Apart from prophecy,
   it was needful for Nazareth that Christ should have been born in
   Bethlehem, otherwise the mystery of His Incarnation' must have become
   known. And yet it could not have been made known, alike for the sake of
   those most nearly concerned, and for that of those who, at that period
   of His History, could not have understood it; to whom, indeed, it would
   have been an absolute hindrance to belief in Him. And He could not have
   returned to Bethlehem, where He was born, to be brought up there,
   without calling attention to the miracle of His Birth. If, therefore,
   for reasons easily comprehended, the mystery of His Incarnation was not
   to be divulged, it was needful that the Incarnate of Nazareth should be
   born at Bethlehem, and the Infant of Bethlehem be brought up at
   Nazareth.

   By thus withdrawing Him successively from one and the other place,
   there was really none on earth who knew of His miraculous Birth, except
   the Virgin-Mother, Joseph, Elizabeth, and probably Zacharias. The
   vision and guidance vouchsafed to the shepherds on that December night
   did not really disclose the mystery of His Incarnation. Remembering
   their religious nations, it would not leave on them quite the same
   impression as on us. It might mean much, or it might mean little, in
   the present: time would tell. In those lands the sand buries quickly
   and buries deep - preserving, indeed, but also hiding what it covers.
   And the sands of thirty years had buried the tale which the shepherds
   had brought; the wise men from the East had returned another way; the
   excitement which their arrival in Jerusalem and its object had caused,
   was long forgotten. Messianic expectations and movements were of
   constant recurrence: the religious atmosphere seemed charged with such
   elements; and the political changes and events of the day were too
   engrossing to allow of much attention to an isolated report, which,
   after all, might mean little, and which certainly was of the long past.
   To keep up attention, there must be communication; and that was
   precisely what was wanting in this instance. The reign of Herod was
   tarnished by many suspicious and murders such as those of Bethlehem.
   Then intervened the death of Herod, - while the carrying of Jesus into
   Egypt and His non-return to Bethlehem formed a complete break in the
   continuity of His History. Between obscure Bethlehem in the far south,
   and obscure Nazareth in the far north, there was no communication such
   as between towns in our own land, and they who had sought the Child's
   life, as well as they who might have worshipped Him, must have been
   dead. The aged parents of the Baptist cannot have survived the thirty
   years which lay between the Birth of Christ and the commencement of His
   Ministry. We have already seen reason for supposing that Joseph had
   died before. None, therefore, knew all except the Virgin-Mother; and
   she would hide it the deeper in her heart, the more years passed, and
   she increasingly felt, as they passed, that, both in His early
   obscurity and in His later manifestation, she could not penetrate into
   the real meaning of that mystery, with which she was so closely
   connected. She could not understand it; how dared she speak of it? She
   could not understand; nay, we can almost perceive, how she might even
   misunderstand - not the fact, but the meaning and the purport of what
   had passed.

   But in Nazareth they knew nothing of all this; and of Him only as that
   Infant Whom His parents, Joseph the carpenter and Mary, had brought
   with them months after they had first left Nazareth. Jewish law and
   custom made it possible, that they might have been married long before.
   And now they only knew of this humble family, that they lived in
   retirement, and that sons and daughters had grown around their humble
   board. Of Jesus, indeed, they must have heard that He was not like
   others around - so quite different in all ways, as He grew in wisdom
   and stature, and in favour with God and man. Then came that strange
   tarrying behind on His first visit to Jerusalem, when His parents had
   to return to seek, and at last found Him in the temple. This, also was
   only strange, though perhaps not strange in a child such as Jesus; and
   of His own explanation of it, so full of deepest meaning, they might
   not have heard. If we may draw probable, though not certain,
   inferences, after that only these three outward circumstances in the
   history of the family might have been generally noticed: that Jesus
   followed the occupation of His adoptive father; [3017] that Joseph had
   died; and that the mother and brethren' of Jesus had left Nazareth,
   [3018] while His sisters' apparently continued there, being probably
   married to Nazarenes. [3019]

   When Jesus had first left Nazareth to seek Baptism at the hands of
   John, it could scarcely have attracted much attention. Not only did the
   whole world' go after the Baptist, but, considering what was known of
   Jesus, His absence from, not His presence at the banks of Jordan, would
   have surprised the Nazarenes. Then came vague reports of His early
   doings, and, what probably His countrymen would much more appreciate,
   the accounts which the Galileans brought back from the Feast of what
   Jesus had done at Jerusalem. His fame had preceded Him on that
   memorable Sabbath, when all Nazareth had thronged the Synagogue,
   curious to hear what the Child of Nazareth would have to say, and still
   more eager to see what He could do. Of the charm of His words there
   could be no question. Both what He said and how He said it, was quite
   other that what they had ever listened to. The difference was not in
   degree, but in kind: He spoke to them of the Kingdom; yet not as for
   Israel's glory, but for unspeakable comfort in the soul's deepest need.
   It was truly wonderful, and that not abstractly, but as on the part of
   Joseph's Son.' That was all they perceived. Of that which they had most
   come to see there was, and could be, no manifestation, so long as they
   measured the Prophet by His outward antecedents, forgetful that it was
   inward kinship of faith, which connected Him that brought the blessing
   with those who received it.

   But this seeming assumption of superiority on the part of Joseph's Son
   was quite too much for the better classes of Nazareth. It was
   intolerable, that He should not only claim equality with an Elijah or
   an Elisha, but place them, the burghers of Nazareth, as it were,
   outside the pale of Israel, below a heathen man or woman. And so, if He
   had not, without the show of it, proved the authority and power He
   possessed, they would have cast Him headlong over the ledge of the hill
   of their insulted town. And now He had come back to them, after nine or
   ten months, in totally different circumstances. No one could any longer
   question His claims, whether for good or for evil. As on the Sabbath He
   stood up once more in that Synagogue to teach, they were astonished.
   The rumour must have spread that, notwithstanding all, His own kin -
   probably His sisters,' whom He might have been supposed by many to have
   come to visit - did not own and honour Him as a Prophet. Or else, had
   they of His own house purposely spread it, so as not to be involved in
   His Fate? But the astonishment with which they heard Him on that
   Sabbath was that of unbelief. The cause was so apparently inadequate to
   the effect! They knew His supposed parentage and His brothers; His
   sisters were still with them; and for these many years had they known
   Him as the carpenter, the son of the carpenter. Whence, then, had this
   One,' these things,' and what the wisdom which' was given to this One'
   - and these mighty works done by His Hands?' [3020]

   It was, indeed, more than a difficulty - an impossibility - to account
   for it on their principles. There could be no delusion, no collusion,
   no deception. In our modern cant-phraseology, theirs might have been
   designated Agnosticism and philosophic doubt. But philosophic it
   certainly was not, any more than much that now passes, because it bears
   that name; at least, if, according to modern negative criticism, the
   inexplicable is also the unthinkable. Nor was it really doubt or
   Agnosticism, any more than much that now covers itself with that garb.
   It was, what Christ designated it - unbelief, since the questions would
   have been easily answered - indeed, never have arisen - had they
   believed that He was the Christ. And the same alternative still holds
   true. If this One' is what negative criticism declares Him, which is
   all that it can know of Him by the outside: the Son of Mary, the
   Carpenter and Son of the carpenter of Nazareth, Whose family occupied
   the humblest position among Galileans - then whence this wisdom which,
   say of it what you will, underlies all modern thinking, and these
   mighty works, which have moulded all modern history? Whence - if He be
   only what you can see by the outside, and yet His be such wisdom, and
   such mighty deeds have been wrought by His Hands? Is He only what you
   say and see, seeing that such results are noways explicable on such
   principles; or is He not much more than this - even the Christ of God?

   And He marvelled because of their unbelief.' In view of their own
   reasoning it was most unreasonable. And equally unreasonable is modern
   unbelief. For, the more strongly negative criticism asserts its
   position as to the Person of Jesus, the more unaccountable are His
   Teaching and the results of His Work.

   In such circumstances as at Nazareth, nothing could be done by a
   Christ, in contradistinction to a miracle-monger. It would have been
   impossible to have finally given up His own town of Nazareth without
   one further appeal and one further opportunity of repentance. As He had
   begun, so He closed this part of His Galilean Ministry, by preaching in
   His own Synagogue of Nazareth. Save in the case of a few who were
   receptive, on whom He laid His Hands for healing, His visit passed away
   without such mighty works' as the Nazarenes had heard of. He will not
   return again to Nazareth. Henceforth He will make commencement of
   sending forth His disciples, partly to disarm prejudices of a personal
   character, partly to spread the Gospel-tiding farther and wider than he
   alone could have carried them. For His Heart compassionated the many
   who were ignorant and out of the way. And the harvest was near, and the
   harvesting was great, and it was His Harvest, into which He would send
   forth labourers.

   For, although, in all likelihood, the words, from which quotation has
   just been made, [3021] were spoken at a later time, [3022] they are so
   entirely in the spirit of the present Mission of the Twelve, that they,
   or words to a similar effect, may also have been uttered on the present
   occasion. Of such seeming repetitions, when the circumstances were
   analogous, although sometimes with different application of the same
   many-sided words, there are not a few instances, of which one will
   presently come under notice. [3023] Truly those to whom the Twelve were
   sent forth were troubled' [3024] as well as scattered,' like sheep that
   have not a Shepherd, and it was to deliver them from the distress'
   caused by grievous wolves,' and to gather into His fold those that had
   been scattered abroad, that Jesus sent forth the Twelve with the
   special commission to which attention will now be directed. Viewing it
   in its fullest form, [3025] it is to be noted: -

   First: That this Discourse of Christ consists of five parts: vv. 5 to
   15; vv. 16 to 23; vv. 24 to 33; vv. 34 to 39; vv. 40 to the end.

   Secondly: That many passages in it occur in different connections in
   the other two Synoptic Gospels, specially in St. Mark xiii. and in St.
   Luke xii. and xxi. From this it may be inferred, either that Jesus
   spake the same or similar words on more than one occasion (when the
   circumstances were analogous), or else that St. Matthew grouped
   together into one Discourse, as being internally connected, sayings
   that may have been spoken on different occasions. Or else - and this
   seems to us the most likely - both these inferences may in part be
   correct. For,

   Thirdly: It is evident, that the Discourse reported by St. Matthew goes
   far beyond that Mission of the Twelve, beyond even that of the Early
   Church, indeed, sketches the history of the Church's Mission in a
   hostile world, up to the end.' At the same time it is equally evident,
   that the predictions, warnings, and promises applicable to a later
   period in the Church's history, hold equally true in principle in
   reference to the first Mission of the Twelve; and, conversely, that
   what specially applied to it, also holds true in principle of the whole
   subsequent history of the Church in its relation to a hostile world.
   Thus, what was specially spoken at this time to the Twelve, has ever
   since, and rightly, been applied to the Church; while that in it, which
   specially refers to the Church of the future, would in principle apply
   also to the Twelve.

   Fourthly: This distinction of primary and secondary application in the
   different parts of the Discourse, and their union in the general
   principles underlying them, has to be kept in view, if we are to
   understand this Discourse of Christ. Hence, also, the present and the
   future seem in it so often to run into each other. The horizon is
   gradually enlarging throughout the Discourse, but there is no change in
   the standpoint originally occupied; and so the present merges into the
   future, and the future mingles with the present. And this, indeed, is
   also the characteristic of much of Old Testament prophecy, and which
   made the prophet ever a preacher of the present, even while he was a
   foreteller of the future.

   Lastly: It is evidential of its authenticity, and deserves special
   notice, that this Discourse, while so un-Jewish in spirit, is more than
   any other, even more than that on the Mount, Jewish in its forms of
   thought and modes of expression.

   With the help of these principles, it will be more easy to mark the
   general outline of this Discourse. Its first part [3026] applies
   entirely to this first Mission of the Twelve, although the closing
   words point forward to the judgment.' [3027] Accordingly it has its
   parallels, although in briefer form, in the other two Gospels. [3028]

   1. The Twelve were to go forth two and two, [3029] furnished with
   authority [3030] - or, as St. Luke more fully expresses it, with power
   and authority' - alike over all demons and to heal all manner of
   diseases. It is of secondary importance, whether this was conveyed to
   them by word only, or with some sacramental sign, such as breathing on
   them or the laying on of hands. The special commission, for which they
   received such power, was to proclaim the near advent of the Kingdom,
   and, in manifestation as well as in evidence of it, to heal the sick,
   cleanse the lepers, and cast out demons. [3031] They were to speak good
   and to do good in the highest sense, and that in a manner which all
   would feel good: freely, even as they had received it. Again, they were
   not to make any special provision [3032] for their journey, beyond the
   absolute immediate present. [3033] They were but labourers, yet as such
   they had claim to support. Their Employer would provide, and the field
   in which they worked might well be expected to supply it. [3034] [3035]

   In accordance with this, singleness of purpose and an entire
   self-denial, which should lead them not to make provision for the
   flesh,' but as labourers to be content with daily food, were the
   further injunctions laid on them. Before entering into a city, they
   were to make inquiry, literally to search out,' who in it was worthy,'
   and of them to ask hospitality; not seeking during their stay a change
   for the gratification of vanity or for self-indulgence. If the report
   on which they had made choice of a host proved true, then the Peace
   with thee!' with which they had entered their temporary home, would
   become a reality. Christ would make it such. As He had given them power
   and authority,' so He would honour' the draft on Him, in acknowledgment
   of hospitable reception, which the Apostles' Peace with thee!' implied.

   But even if the house should prove unworthy, the Lord would none the
   less own the words of His messengers and make them real; only, in such
   case the peace would return to them who had spoken it. Yet another case
   was possible. The house to which their inquiries had led them, or the
   city into which they had entered, might refuse to receive them, because
   they came as Christ's ambassadors. Greater, indeed, would be their
   guilt than that of the cities of the plain, since these had not known
   the character of the heavenly guests to whom they refused reception;
   and more terrible would be their future punishment. So Christ would
   vindicate their authority as well as His own, and show the reality of
   their commission: on the one hand, by making their Word of Peace a
   reality to those who had proved worthy;' and, on the other, by
   punishment if their message was refused. Lastly, in their present
   Mission they were not to touch either Gentile or Samaritan territory.
   The direction - so different in spirit from what Jesus Himself had
   previously said and done, and from their own later commission - was, of
   course, only for the present necessity.' [3036] For the present they
   were neither prepared nor fitted to go beyond the circuit indicated. It
   would have been a fatal anticipation of their inner and outer history
   to have attempted this, and it would have defeated the object of our
   Lord of disarming prejudices when making a final appeal to the Jews of
   Galilee.

   Even these considerations lead us to expect a strictly Jewish cast in
   this Discourse to the Disciples. The command to abstain from any
   religious fellowship with Gentiles and Samaritans was in temporary
   accommodation to the prejudices of His disciples and of the Jews. And
   the distinction between the way of the Gentiles' and any city of the
   Samaritans' is the more significant, when we bear in mind that even the
   dust of a heathen road was regarded as defiling, [3037] while the
   houses, springs, roads, and certain food of the Samaritans were
   declared clean. [3038] At the same time, religiously and as regarded
   fellowship, the Samaritans were placed on the same footing with
   Gentiles. [3039] Nor would the injunction, to impart their message
   freely, sound strange in Jewish ears. It was, in fact, what the Rabbis
   themselves most earnestly enjoined in regard to the teaching of the Law
   and traditions, however different their practice may have been. [3040]
   Indeed, the very argument, that they were to impart freely, because
   they had received freely, is employed by the Rabbis, and derived from
   the language and example of Moses in Deut. iv. 5. [3041] [3042] Again,
   the directions about not taking staff, shoes, nor money-purse, exactly
   correspond to the Rabbinic injunction not to enter the Temple-precincts
   with staff, shoes [3043] (mark, not sandals), and a money-girdle.
   [3044] The symbolic [3045] reasons underlying this command would, in
   both cases, be probably the same: to avoid even the appearance of being
   engaged on other business, when the whole being should be absorbed in
   the service of the Lord. At any rate, it would convey to the disciples
   the idea, that they were to consider themselves as if entering the
   Temple-precincts, thus carrying out the principle of Christ's first
   thought in the Temple: Wist ye not that I must be about My Father's
   business?' [3046] Nor could they be in doubt what severity of final
   punishment a doom heavier than that of Sodom and Gomorrah would imply,
   since, according to early tradition, their inhabitants were to have no
   part in the world to come. [3047] And most impressive to a Jewish mind
   would be the symbolic injunction, to shake off the dust of their feet
   for a testimony against such a house or city. The expression, no doubt,
   indicated that the ban of the Lord was resting on it, and the symbolic
   act would, as it were, be the solemn pronouncing that nought of the
   cursed thing' clave to them. [3048] [3049] In this sense, anything that
   clave to a person was metaphorically called the dust,' as for example,
   the dust of an evil tongue,' [3050] the dust of usury,' as, on the
   other hand, to dust to idolatry' meant to cleave to it. [3051] Even the
   injunction not to change the dwelling, where one had been received, was
   in accordance with Jewish views, the example of Abraham being quoted,
   who [3052] returned to the place where his tent had been at the
   beginning.' [3053] [3054]

   These remarks show how closely the Lord followed, in this first part of
   His charge to the disciples, [3055] Jewish forms of thinking and modes
   of expression. It is not otherwise in the second, [3056] although the
   difference is here very marked. We have no longer merely the original
   commission, as it is given in almost the same terms by St. Mark and St.
   Luke. But the horizon is now enlarged, and St. Matthew reports that
   which the other Evangelists record at a later stage of the Lord's
   Ministry. Whether or not when the Lord charged His disciples on their
   first mission, He was led gradually to enlarge the scope of His
   teaching so as to adapt it to all times, need not be discussed. For St.
   Matthew himself could not have intended to confine the words of Christ
   to this first journey of the Apostles, since they contain references to
   division in families, persecutions, and conflict with the civil power,
   [3057] such as belong to a much later period in the history of the
   Church; and, besides, contain also that prediction which could not have
   applied to this first Mission of the Apostles, Ye shall not have gone
   over the cities of Israel, till the Son of Man be come.' [3058]

   Without here anticipating the full inquiry into the promise of His
   immediate Coming, it is important to avoid, even at this stage, any
   possible misunderstanding on the point. The expectation of the Coming
   of the Son of Man' was grounded on a prophecy of Daniel, [3059] in
   which that Advent, or rather manifestation, was associated with
   judgment. The same is the case in this Charge of our Lord. The
   disciples in their work are described as sheep in the midst of wolves,'
   a phrase which the Midrash [3060] applies to the position of Israel
   amidst a hostile world, adding: How great is that Shepherd, Who
   delivers them, and vanquishes the wolves! Similarly, the admonition to
   be wise as serpents and harmless as doves' is reproduced in the
   Midrash, [3061] where Israel is described as harmless as the dove
   towards God, and wise as serpents towards the hostile Gentile nations.
   Such and even greater would be the enmity which the disciples, as the
   true Israel, would have to encounter from Israel after the flesh. They
   would be handed over to the various Sanhedrin, [3062] and visited with
   such punishments as these tribunals had power to inflict. [3063] More
   than this, they would be brought before governors and kings -
   primarily, the Roman governors and the Herodian princes. [3064] And so
   determined would be this persecution, as to break the ties of the
   closest kinship, and to bring on them the hatred of all men. [3065] The
   only, but the all-sufficient, support in those terrible circumstances
   was the assurance of such help from above, that, although unlearned and
   humble, they need have no care, nor make preparation in their defence,
   which would be given them from above. And with this they had the
   promise, that he who endured to the end would be saved, and the
   prudential direction, so far as possible, to avoid persecution by
   timely withdrawal, which could be the more readily achieved, since they
   would not have completed their circuit of the cities of Israel before
   the Son of Man be come.'

   It is of the greatest importance to keep in view that, at whatever
   period of Christ's Ministry this prediction and promise were spoken,
   and whether only once or oftener, they refer exclusively to a Jewish
   state of things. The persecutions are exclusively Jewish. This appears
   from verse 18, where the answer of the disciples is promised to be for
   a testimony against them,' who had delivered them up, that is, here
   evidently the Jews, as also against the Gentiles.' And the Evangelistic
   circuit of the disciples in their preaching was to be primarily Jewish;
   and not only so, but in the time when there were still cities of
   Israel,' that is, previous to the final destruction of the Jewish
   commonwealth. The reference, then, is to that period of Jewish
   persecution and of Apostolic preaching in the cities of Israel, which
   is bounded by the destruction of Jerusalem. Accordingly, the coming of
   the Son of Man,' and the end' here spoken of, must also have the same
   application. It was, as we have seen, according to Dan. vii. 13, a
   coming in judgment. To the Jewish persecuting authorities, who had
   rejected the Christ, in order, as they imagined, to save their City and
   Temple from the Romans, [3066] and to whom Christ had testified that He
   would come again, this judgment on their city and state, this
   destruction of their polity, was the Coming of the Son of Man' in
   judgment, and the only coming which the Jews, as a state, could expect,
   the only one meet for them, even as, to them who look for Him, He will
   appear a second time, without sin unto salvation.

   That this is the only natural meaning attaching to this prediction,
   especially when compared with the parallel utterances recorded in St.
   Mark xiii. 9-13, appears to us indubitable. It is another question how,
   or how far, those to whom these words were in the first place addressed
   would understand their full bearing, at least at that time. Even
   supposing, that the disciples who first heard did not distinguish
   between the Coming to Israel in judgment, and that to the world in
   mingled judgment and mercy, as it was afterwards conveyed to them in
   the Parable of the Forthshooting of the Fig-tree, [3067] yet the early
   Christians must soon have become aware of it. For, the distinction is
   sharply marked. As regards its manner, the second' Coming of Christ may
   be said to correspond to the state of those to whom He cometh. To the
   Jews His first Coming was visible, and as claiming to be their King.
   They had asked for a sign; and no sign was given them at the time. They
   rejected Him, and placed the Jewish polity and nation in rebellion
   against the King.' To the Jews, who so rejected the first visible
   appearance of Christ as their King, the second appearance would be
   invisible but real; the sign which they had asked would be given them,
   but as a sign of judgment, and His Coming would be in judgment. Thus
   would His authority be vindicated, and He appear, not, indeed, visibly
   but really, as what He had claimed to be. That this was to be the
   manner and object of His Coming to Israel, was clearly set forth to the
   disciples in the Parable of the Unthankful Husbandmen. [3068] The
   coming of the Lord of the vineyard would be the destruction of the
   wicked husbandmen. And to render misunderstanding impossible, the
   explanation is immediately added, that the Kingdom of God was to be
   taken from them, and given to those who would bring forth the fruits
   thereof. Assuredly, this could not, even in the view of the disciples,
   which may have been formed on the Jewish model, have applied to the
   Coming of Christ at the end of the present Æon dispensation.

   We bear in mind that this second, outwardly invisible but very real,
   Coming of the Son of Man to the Jews, as a state, could only be in
   judgment on their polity, in that Sign' which was once refused, but
   which, when it appeared, would only too clearly vindicate His claims
   and authority. Thus viewed, the passages, in which that second Coming
   is referred to, will yield their natural meaning. Neither the mission
   of the disciples, nor their journeying through the cities of Israel,
   was finished, before the Son of Man came. Nay, there were those
   standing there who would not taste death, till they had seen in the
   destruction of the city and state the vindication of the Kingship of
   Jesus, which Israel had disowned. [3069] And even in those last
   Discourses in which the horizon gradually enlarges, and this Coming in
   judgment to Israel merges in the greater judgment on an unbelieving
   world, [3070] this earlier Coming to the Jewish nation is clearly
   marked. The three Evangelists equally record it, that this generation'
   should not pass away, till all things were fulfilled. [3071] To take
   the lowest view, it is scarcely conceivable that these sayings would
   have been allowed to stand in all the three Gospels, if the disciples
   and the early Church had understood the Coming of the Son of Man in any
   other sense than as to the Jews in the destruction of their polity. And
   it is most significant, that the final utterances of the Lord as to His
   Coming were elicited by questions arising from the predicted
   destruction of the Temple. This the early disciples associated with the
   final Coming of Christ. To explain more fully the distinction between
   them would have been impossible, in consistency with the Lord's general
   purpose about the doctrine of His Coming. Yet the Parables which in the
   Gospels (especially in that by St. Matthew) follow on these
   predictions, [3072] and the teaching about the final Advent of the Son
   of Man,' point clearly to a difference and an interval between the one
   and the other.

   The disciples must have the more readily applied this prediction of His
   Coming to Palestine, since the woes' connected with it so closely
   corresponded to those expected by the Jews before the Advent of
   Messiah. [3073] Even the direction to flee from persecution is repeated
   by the Rabbis in similar circumstances and established by the example
   of Jacob, [3074] of Moses, [3075] and of David. [3076]

   In the next section of this Discourse of our Lord, as reported by St.
   Matthew, [3077] the horizon is enlarged. The statements are still
   primarily applicable to the early disciples, and their preaching among
   the Jews and in Palestine. But their ultimate bearing is already wider,
   and includes predictions and principles true to all time. In view of
   the treatment which their Master received, the disciples must expect
   misrepresentation and evil-speaking. Nor could it seem strange to them,
   since even the common Rabbinic proverb had it: [3078] It is enough for
   a servant to be as his lord' ({hebrew}). As we hear it from the lips of
   Christ, we remember that this saying afterwards comforted those, who
   mourned the downfall of wealthy and liberal homes in Israel, by
   thoughts of the greater calamity which had overthrown Jerusalem and the
   Temple. And very significant is its application by Christ: If they have
   called the Master of the house Beelzebul, [3079] how much more them of
   His household.' This charge, brought of course by the Pharisaic party
   of Jerusalem, had a double significance. We believe, that the
   expression Master of the house' looked back to the claims which Jesus
   had made on His first purification of the Temple. We almost seem to
   hear the coarse Rabbinic witticism in its play on the word Beelzebul.
   For, Zebhul, ({hebrew}) means in Rabbinic language, not any ordinary
   dwelling, but specifically the Temple, [3080] [3081] and Beel-Zebul
   would be the Master of the Temple.' On the other hand, Zibbul
   ({hebrew}) means [3082] sacrificing to idols; [3083] and hence
   Beel-zebul would, in that sense, be equivalent to lord' or chief of
   idolatrous sacrificing' [3084] - the worst and chiefest of demons, who
   presided over, and incited to, idolatry. The Lord of the Temple' (which
   truly was His Church) was to them the chief of idolatrous worship,' the
   Representative of God that of the worst of demons: Beelzebul was
   Beelzibbul! [3085] What then might His Household' expect at their
   hands?

   But they were not to fear such misrepresentations. In due time the Lord
   would make manifest both His and their true character. [3086] [3087]
   Nor were they to be deterred from announcing in the clearest and most
   public manner, in broad daylight, and from the flat roofs of houses,
   that which had been first told them in the darkness, as Jewish teachers
   communicated the deepest and highest doctrines in secret to their
   disciples, or as the preacher would whisper his discourse into the ear
   of the interpreter. The deepest truths concerning His Person, and the
   announcement of His Kingdom and Work, were to be fully revealed, and
   loudly proclaimed. But, from a much higher point of view, how different
   was the teaching of Christ from that of the Rabbis! The latter laid it
   down as a principle, which they tried to prove from Scripture, [3088]
   that, in order to save one's life, it was not only lawful, but even
   duty - if necessary, to commit any kind of sin, except idolatry,
   incest, or murder. [3089] Nay, even idolatry was allowed, if only it
   were done in secret, so as not to profane the Name of the Lord - than
   which death was infinitely preferable. [3090] Christ, on the other
   hand, not only ignored this vicious Jewish distinction of public and
   private as regarded morality, but bade His followers set aside all
   regard for personal safety, even in reference to the duty of preaching
   the Gospel. There was a higher fear than of men: that of God - and it
   should drive out the fear of those who could only kill the body.
   Besides, why fear? God's Providence extended even over the meanest of
   His creatures. Two sparrows cost only an assarion ({hebrew}), about the
   third of a penny. [3091] Yet even one of them would not perish without
   the knowledge of God. No illustration was more familiar to the Jewish
   mind than that of His watchful care even over the sparrows. The
   beautiful allusion in Amos iii. 5 was somewhat realistically carried
   out in a legend which occurs in more than one Rabbinic passage. We are
   told that, after that great miracle-worker of Jewish legend, R. Simeon
   ben Jochai, had been for thirteen years in hiding from his persecutors
   in a cave, where he was miraculously fed, he observed that, when the
   bird-catcher laid his snare, the bird escaped, or was caught, according
   as a voice from heaven proclaimed, Mercy,' or else, Destruction.'
   Arguing, that if even a sparrow could not be caught without heaven's
   bidding, how much more safe was the life of a son of man' ({hebrew}),
   he came forth. [3092]

   Nor could even the additional promise of Christ: But of you even the
   hairs of the head are all numbered,' [3093] surprise His disciples. But
   it would convey to them the gladsome assurance that, in doing His Work,
   they were performing the Will of God, and were specially in His
   keeping. And it would carry home to them - with the comfort of a very
   different application, while engaged in doing the Work and Will of God
   - what Rabbinism expressed in a realistic manner by the common sayings,
   that whither a man was to go, thither his feet would carry him; and,
   that a man could not injure his finger on earth, unless it had been so
   decreed of him in heaven. [3094] And in later Rabbinic writings [3095]
   we read, in almost the words of Christ: Do I not number all the hairs
   of every creature?' And yet an even higher outlook was opened to the
   disciples. All preaching was confessing, and all confessing a preaching
   of Christ; and our confession or denial would, almost by a law of
   nature, meet with similar confession or denial on the part of Christ
   before His Father in heaven. [3096] This, also, was an application of
   that fundamental principle, that nothing is covered that shall not be
   revealed,' which, indeed, extendeth to the inmost secrets of heart and
   life.

   What follows in our Lord's Discourse [3097] still further widens the
   horizon. It describes the condition and laws of His Kingdom, until the
   final revelation of that which is now covered and hidden. So long as
   His claims were set before a hostile world they could only provoke war.
   [3098] On the other hand, so long as such decision was necessary, in
   the choice of either those nearest and dearest, of ease, nay, of life
   itself, or else of Christ, there could be no compromise. Not that, as
   is sometimes erroneously supposed, a very great degree of love to the
   dearest on earth amounts to loving them more than Christ. No degree of
   proper affection can ever make affection wrongful, even as no
   diminution of it could make wrongful affection right. The love which
   Christ condemneth differs not in degree, but in kind, from rightful
   affection. It is one which takes the place of love to Christ - not
   which is placed by the side of that of Christ. For, rightly viewed, the
   two occupy different provinces. Wherever and whenever the two
   affections come into comparison, they also come into collision. And so
   the questions of not being worthy of Him (and who can be positively
   worthy?), and of the true finding or losing of our life, have their
   bearing on our daily life and profession. [3099]

   But even in this respect the disciples must, to some extent, have been
   prepared to receive the teaching of Christ. It was generally expected,
   that a time of great tribulation would precede the Advent of the
   Messiah. Again, it was a Rabbinic axiom, that the cause of the Teacher,
   to whom a man owed eternal life, was to be taken in hand before that of
   his father, to whom he owed only the life of this world. [3100] [3101]
   Even the statement about taking up the cross in following Christ,
   although prophetic, could not sound quite strange. Crucifixion was,
   indeed, not a Jewish punishment, but the Jews must have become sadly
   familiar with it. The Targum [3102] speaks of it as one of the four
   modes of execution of which Naomi described to Ruth as those in custom
   in Palestine, the other three being - stoning, burning, and beheading.
   Indeed, the expression bearing the cross,' as indicative of sorrow and
   suffering, is so common, that we read, Abraham carried the wood for the
   sacrifice of Issac, like who bears his cross on his shoulder.' [3103]

   Nor could the disciples be in doubt as to the meaning of the last part
   of Christ's address. [3104] They were old Jewish forms of thought, only
   filled with the new wine of the Gospel. The Rabbis taught, only in
   extravagant terms, the merit attaching to the reception and
   entertainment of sages. [3105] The very expression in the name of' a
   prophet, or a righteous man, is strictly Jewish ({hebrew}), and means
   for the sake of, or with intention, in regard to. It appears to us,
   that Christ introduced His own distinctive teaching by the admitted
   Jewish principle, that hospitable reception for the sake of, or with
   the intention of doing it to, a prophet or a righteous man, would
   procure a share in the prophet's righteous man's reward. Thus,
   tradition had it, that a Obadiah of King Ahab's court [3106] had become
   the prophet of that name, because he had provided for the hundred
   prophets. [3107] And we are repeatedly assured, that to receive a sage,
   or even an elder, was like receiving the Shekhinah itself. But the
   concluding promise of Christ, concerning the reward of even a cup of
   cold water' to one of these little ones' in the name of a disciple,'
   goes far beyond the farthest conceptions of His contemporaries. Yet
   even so, the expression would, so far as its form is concerned, perhaps
   bear a fuller meaning to them than to us. These little ones' ({hebrew})
   were the children,' who were still learning the elements of knowledge,
   and who would by-and-by grow into disciples.' For, as the Midrash has
   it: Where there are no little ones, there are no disciples; and where
   no disciples, no sages: where no sages, there no elders; where no
   elders, there no prophets; and where no prophets, there [3108] does God
   not cause His Shekhinah to rest.' [3109]

   We have been so particular in marking the Jewish parallelisms in this
   Discourse, first, because it seemed important to show, that the words
   of the Lord were not beyond the comprehension of the disciples.
   Starting from forms of thought and expressions with which they were
   familiar, He carried them far beyond Jewish ideas and hopes. But,
   secondly, it is just in this similarity of form, which proves that it
   was of the time, and to the time, as well as to us and to all times,
   that we best see, how far the teaching of Christ transcended all
   contemporary conception.

   But the reality, the genuineness, the depth and fervour of
   self-surrender, which Christ expects, is met by equal fulness of
   acknowledgment on His part, alike in heaven and on earth. In fact,
   there is absolute identification with His ambassadors on the part of
   Christ. As He is the Ambassador of the Father, so are they His, and as
   such also the ambassadors of the Father. To receive them was.
   therefore, not only to receive Christ, but the Father, Who would own
   the humblest, even the meanest service of love to one of the learners,
   the little ones.' All the more painful is the contrast of Jewish pride
   and self-righteousness, which attributes supreme merit to ministering,
   not as to God, but as to man; not for God's sake, but for that of the
   man; a pride which could give utterance to such a saying, All the
   prophets have announced salvation only to the like of those who give
   their daughters in marriage to sages, or cause them to make gain, or
   give of their goods to them. But what the bliss of the sages themselves
   is, no mortal eye has seen.' [3110]

   It was not with such sayings that Christ sent forth His disciples; nor
   in such spirit, that the world has been subdued to Him. The
   relinquishing of all that is nearest and dearest, cross-bearing, loss
   of life itself - such were the terms of His discipleship. Yet
   acknowledgment there would surely, be first, in the felt and assured
   sense of His Presence; then, in the reward of a prophet, a righteous
   man, or, it might be, a disciple. But all was to be in Him, and for
   Him, even the gift of a cup of cold water' to a little one.' Nay,
   neither the little ones,' the learners, nor the cup of cold water given
   them, would be overlooked or forgotten.

   But over all did the Meek and Lowly One' cast the loftiness of His
   Humility.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [3013] Although in Ber. R. 23 the origin of that name is rightly traced
   to the Emperor Tiberius, it is characteristic that the Talmud tries
   otherwise to derive the name of what afterwards was the sacred capital
   of Palestinian Rabbinism, some explaining that it lay in the navel
   (tibura) of the land, others paraphrasing the name because the view was
   good' (Meg. 6 a). Rabbinic ingenuity declared it one of the cities
   fortified since the time of Joshua, so as to give it the privileges
   attaching to such.

   [3014] St. Mark vi. 1.

   [3015] St. Luke iv. 16-31.

   [3016] Compare Chapters X. and XI.

   [3017] St. Mark vi. 3.

   [3018] They seem to have settled in Capernaum, having followed Jesus to
   that place on His first removal to it. We can readily understand, that
   their continuance in Nazareth would have been difficult. The death of
   Joseph is implied in his not being mentioned in the later history of
   Jesus.

   [3019] St. Mark vi. 3.

   [3020] St. Mark vi. 2.

   [3021] St. Matt. ix. 36-38.

   [3022] St. Luke x. 2.

   [3023] Comp. St. Matt. x. 26 with St. Luke xii. 1, 2.

   [3024] So in St. Matt. ix. 36.

   [3025] St. Matt. x. 5 to the end.

   [3026] St. Matt. x. 5-15.

   [3027] ver. 15.

   [3028] St. Mark vi. 7-11; St. Luke ix. 1-5.

   [3029] St. Mark vi. 7.

   [3030] So also in St. Matthew and in St. Mark. But this authority'
   sprang from the power which he gave them.

   [3031] Dean Plumptre remarks: The words ("raise the dead") are omitted
   by the best MSS.'

   [3032] Weiss (Matth. Evang. p. 262) has the curious idea that the
   prohibitions about money, &c., refer to their not making gain on their
   journey.

   [3033] Sandals, but not shoes. As regards the marked difference about
   the staff,' Ebrard (Evang. Gesch. p. 459) points out the agreement of
   thought in all the Gospels. Nothing was to be taken - they were to go
   as they stood, without preparation or provision. Sometimes there was a
   secret receptacle at the top of the staff to hold valuables, or, in the
   case of the poor, water (Kel. xvii. 16).

   [3034] Comp. for this latter aspect 1 Tim. v. 18.

   [3035] According to Jewish Law, the labourers' (the{hebrew}, at least),
   would be secured their food. Not so always, however, slaves (Gitt. 12
   a). In general, the Rabbinic Law of slavery is exceeding harsh - far
   more so than that of the Pentateuch (comp. an abstract of the Laws of
   Slavery in Fassel, Mos.-Rabb. Civil-Recht, vol. ii. pp. 393-406).

   [3036] The direction is recorded by St. Matthew only. But St. Matt.
   xxviii. 19 would, if it were necessary, sufficiently prove that this is
   not a Judaistic limitation.

   [3037] Sanh. 15 b; Ned. 53 b.

   [3038] Jer. Abhod. Z 44 d.

   [3039] Jer. Sheq. i. 5, p. 46 b.

   [3040] Ab. i. 13.

   [3041] Ab. iv. 5; Bekhor. 29 a.

   [3042] At the same time the statement in Bekhor. 29 a, that if needful
   money was to be paid for the acquisition of learning,' according to
   Prov. xxiii. 23 (by the truth'), implies that the rule cannot always
   have been strictly observed.

   [3043] The Manal ({hebrew}) or shoe, in contradistinction to the Sandal
   ({hebrew}), as in Jer. Shabb. 8 a.

   [3044] Ber. ix. 5.

   [3045] The Pundah ({hebrew}), or Aphundah ({hebrew}). Comp. for ex.
   Jer. Shabb. 12 c.

   [3046] St. Luke ii. 49.

   [3047] Sanh. x. 3.

   [3048] Deut. xiii. 17.

   [3049] The explanations of this expression generally offered need not
   here be repeated.

   [3050] Jer. Peah 16 a.

   [3051] Sanh. 64 a.

   [3052] According to Gen. xiii. 3.

   [3053] Arach. 16 b, lines 12 and 11 from bottom.

   [3054] So common, indeed, was this view as to have become proverbial.
   Thus, it was said concerning learned descendants of a learned man, that
   the Torah returned into its Akhsanya ((xenia),' or hospice (Baba Mez.
   85 a, bis, in the curious story about the successful attempts made to
   convert to study the dissolute son of a great Rabbi).

   [3055] St. Matt. x. 1-15.

   [3056] St. Matt. x. 16-23.

   [3057] vv. 16-18.

   [3058] ver. 23.

   [3059] Dan. vii. 13.

   [3060] On Esther viii. 2, ed. Warsh. p. 120 b.

   [3061] On Cant. ii. 14.

   [3062] The question of the constitution and jurisdiction of the various
   Sanhedrin will be discussed in another place.

   [3063] St. Matt. x. 17.

   [3064] ver. 18.

   [3065] vv. 21, 22.

   [3066] St. John xi. 48.

   [3067] St. Luke xxi. 29-31.

   [3068] St. Matt. xxi. 33-46, and the parallels.

   [3069] St. Matt. xvi. 28, and parallels.

   [3070] St. Matt. xxiv. and parallels.

   [3071] St. Matt. xxiv. 34; St. Mark xiii.30; St. Luke xxi. 32.

   [3072] St. Matt. xxv. 1-30.

   [3073] Sot. ix. 15; comp. Sanh. 97 a to 99 a, passim.

   [3074] Hos. xii. 12.

   [3075] Ex. ii. 15.

   [3076] 1 Sam. xix. 12; comp. Bemidb. R. 23, ed. Warsh. p. 86 b, and
   Tanch.

   [3077] St. Matt. x. 24-34.

   [3078] So Ber. 58 b; Siphra on Lev. xxv. 23; Ber. R. 49; Shem. R. 42;
   Midr. on Ps. xxvii. 4.

   [3079] This is undoubtedly the correct reading, and not Beelzebub. Any
   reference to the Baalzebub, or fly-god' of 2 Kings i. 2, seems,
   rationally, out of the question.

   [3080] Zebhul ({hebrew}) is also the name of the fourth of the seven
   heavens in which Jewish mysticism located the heavenly Jerusalem with
   its Temple, at whose altar Michael ministered (Chag. 12 b).

   [3081] Jer. Ber. 13 b.

   [3082] The primary meaning is: manuring (land) with dung.

   [3083] Abod. Z. 18 b, and often.

   [3084] It could not possibly mean, as has been supposed, lord of dung,'
   because dung is {hebrew} and not {hebrew}.

   [3085] This alone explains the meaning of Beelzebul. Neither Beelzebub
   nor Baalzebul were names given by the Jews to any demon, but Beelzebul,
   the lord of sacrificing to idols,' would certainly be the designation
   of what they regarded as the chief of the demons.

   [3086] St. Matt. x. 26.

   [3087] Mark the same meaning of the expression in St. Luke viii. 17;
   xii. 2.

   [3088] Lev. xviii. 5.

   [3089] Sanh. 74 a comp. Yoma 82 a.

   [3090] I confess myself unable to understand the bearing of the special
   pleading of Wünsche against this inference from Sanh. 74 a. His
   reasoning is certainly incorrect.

   [3091] The Isar ({hebrew}), or assarion, is expressly and repeatedly
   stated in Rabbinic writings to be the twenty-forth part of a dinar, and
   hence not a halfpenny farthing, but about the third of a penny. Comp.
   Herzfeld, Handelsgeschichte, pp. 180-182.

   [3092] Ber. R. 79, ed. Warsh. p. 142 b; Jer. Shebh. ix. 1; Midr. on
   Eccl. x. 8; on Esth. i. 9; on Ps. xvii. 14.

   [3093] This is the literal rendering.

   [3094] Chull. 7 b; comp. also the even more realistic expression,
   Shabb. 107 b.

   [3095] Pesiqta 18 a.

   [3096] This appears more clearly when we translate literally (ver. 32):
   Who shall confess in Me' - and again: in him will I also confess.'

   [3097] St. Matt. x. 34.

   [3098] The original is very peculiar: Think not that I came to cast
   peace on the earth,' as a sower casts the seed into the ground.

   [3099] The meaning of the expression, losing and finding one's life,
   appears more markedly by attending to the tenses in the text: He that
   found his life shall lose it, and he that lost his life for My sake
   shall find it.'

   [3100] B. Mets 33 a.

   [3101] Especially if he taught him the highest of all lore, the Talmud,
   or explained the reason for the meaning of what it contained.

   [3102] On Ruth i. 17.

   [3103] Ber. R. 56, on Gen. xxii. 6.

   [3104] St. Matt. x. 40-42.

   [3105] Comp. for example the long discussion in Ber. 63 b.

   [3106] 1 Kings xviii. 4.

   [3107] Sanh. 39 b.

   [3108] According to Is. viii. 16.

   [3109] Ber. R. 42, on Gen. xiv. 1.

   [3110] Sanh. 99 a.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XXVIII.
THE STORY OF THE BAPTIST, FROM HIS LAST TESTIMONY TO JESUS TO HIS BEHEADING IN
PRISON

   (1. St. John iii. 25-30. 2. St. Matt. ix. 14-17; St. Mark ii. 18-22;
   St. Luke v. 33-39. 3. St. Matt. xi. 2-14; St. Luke vii. 18-35. 4. St.
   Matt. xiv. 1-12; St. Mark vi.14-29; St. Luke ix. 7-9.)

   WHILE the Apostles went forth by two and two on their first Mission,
   [3111] Jesus Himself taught and preached in the towns around Capernaum.
   [3112] This period of undisturbed activity seems, however, to have been
   of brief duration. [3113] That it was eminently successful, we infer
   not only from direct notices, [3114] but also from the circumstance
   that, for the first time, the attention of Herod Antipas was now called
   to the Person of Jesus. We suppose that, during the nine or ten months
   of Christ's Galilean Ministry, the Tetrarch had resided in his Paraean
   dominions (east of the Jordan), either at Julias or at Machærus, in
   which latter fortress the Baptist was beheaded. We infer, that the
   labours of the Apostles had also extended thus far, since they
   attracted the notice of Herod. In the popular excitement caused by the
   execution of the Baptist, the miraculous activity of the messengers of
   the Christ, Whom John had announced, would naturally attract wider
   interest, while Antipas would, under the influence of fear and
   superstition, give greater heed to them. We can scarcely be mistaken in
   supposing, that this accounts for the abrupt termination of the labours
   of the Apostles, and their return to Jesus. At any rate, the arrival of
   the disciples of John, with tidings of their master's death, and the
   return of the Apostles, seem to have been contemporaneous. [3115]
   Finally, we conjecture, that it was among the motives which influenced
   the removal of Christ and His Apostles from Capernaum. Temporarily to
   withdraw Himself and His disciples from Herod, to give them a season of
   rest and further preparation after the excitement of the last few
   weeks, and to avoid being involved in the popular movements consequent
   on the murder of the Baptist - such we may venture to indicated as
   among the reasons of the departure of Jesus and His disciples, first
   into the dominions of the Tetrarch Philip, on the eastern side of the
   Lake, [3116] and after that into the borders of Tyre and Sidon.' [3117]
   Thus the fate of the Baptist was, as might have been expected, decisive
   in its influence on the History of the Christ and of His Kingdom. But
   we have yet to trace the incidents in the life of John, so far as
   recorded in the Gospels, from the time of His last contact with Jesus
   to his execution.

   1. It was [3118] in the late spring, or rather early summer of the year
   27 of our era, that John was baptizing in Ænon, near to Salim. In the
   neighbourhood, Jesus and His disciples were similarly engaged. [3119]
   The Presence and activity of Jesus in Jerusalem at the Passover [3120]
   had determined the Pharisaic party to take active measures against Him
   and His Forerunner, John. As to the first outcome of this plan we
   notice the discussions on the question of purification,' and the
   attempt to separate between Christ and the Baptist by exciting the
   jealousy of the latter. [3121] But the result was far different. His
   disciples might have been influenced, but John himself was too true a
   man, and too deeply convinced of the reality of Christ's Mission, to
   yield even for a moment to such temptation. Nothing more noble can be
   conceived than the self-abnegation of the Baptist in circumstances
   which would not only have turned aside an impostor or an enthusiast,
   but must have severely tried the constancy of the truest man. At the
   end of a most trying career of constant self-denial its scanty fruits
   seemed, as it were, snatched from Him, and the multitude, which he had
   hitherto swayed, turned after Another, to Whom himself had first given
   testimony, but Who ever since had apparently neglected him. And now he
   had seemingly appropriated the one distinctive badge of his preaching!
   Not to rebel, nor to murmur, but even to rejoice in this as the right
   and proper thing, for which he had longed as the end of his own work -
   this implies a purity, simplicity, and grandeur of purpose, and a
   strength of conviction unsurpassed among men. The moral height of this
   testimony of John, and the evidential force of the introduction of this
   narrative - utterly unaccountable, nay, unintelligible on the
   hypothesis that it is not true - seem to us among the strongest
   evidences in favour of the Gospel-history.

   It was not the greatness of the Christ, to his own seeming loss, which
   could cloud the noonday of the Baptist's convictions. In simple Judæan
   illustration, he was only the friend of the Bridegroom' (the
   Shoshebheyna'), with all that popular association or higher Jewish
   allegory connected with that relationship. [3122] He claimed not the
   bride. His was another joy - that of hearing the Voice of her rightful
   Bridegroom, Whose groomsman' he was. In the sound of that Voice lay the
   fulfilment of his office. And St. John, looking back upon the relation
   between the Baptist and Jesus - on the reception of the testimony of
   the former and the unique position of the Bridegroom' - points out the
   lessons of the answer of the Baptist to his disciples (St. John iii. 31
   to 36 [3123] ) as formerly those of the conversation with Nicodemus.
   [3124]

   This hour of the seeming abasement of the Baptist was, in truth, that
   of the highest exaltation, as marking the fulfilment of his office,
   and, therefore, of his joy. Hours of cloud and darkness were to follow.

   2. The scene has changed, and the Baptist has become the prisoner of
   Herod Antipas. The dominions of the latter embraced, in the north:
   Galilee, west of the Jordan and of the Lake of Galilee; and in the
   south: Peræa, east of the Jordan. To realise events we must bear in
   mind that, crossing the Lake eastwards, we should pass from the
   possessions of Herod to those of the Tetrarch Philip, or else come upon
   the territory of the Ten Cities,' or Decapolis, a kind of confederation
   of townships, with constitution and liberties, such as those of the
   Grecian cities. [3125] By a narrow strip northwards, Peræa just slipped
   in between the Decapolis and Samaria. It is impossible with certainty
   to localise the Ænon, near Salim, where John baptized. Ancient
   tradition placed the latter a few miles south of Scythopolis or
   Bethshean, on the borders of Galilee, or rather, the Decapolis, and
   Samaria. But as the eastern part of Samaria towards the Jordan was very
   narrow, one may well believe that the place was close to, perhaps
   actually in, the north-eastern angle of the province of Judæa, where it
   borders on Samaria. We are now on the western bank of Jordan. The
   other, or eastern, bank of the river would be that narrow northern
   strip of Peræa which formed part of the territory of Antipas. Thus a
   few miles, or the mere crossing of the river, would have brought the
   Baptist into Peræa. There can be no doubt but that the Baptist must
   either have crossed into, or else that Ænon, near Salim, was actually
   within the dominions of Herod. [3126] It was on that occasion that
   Herod seized on his person, [3127] and that Jesus, Who was still within
   Judæan territory, withdrew from the intrigues of the Pharisees and the
   proximity of Herod, through Samaria, into Galilee. [3128]

   For, although Galilee belonged to Herod Antipas, it was sufficiently
   far from the present residence of the Tetrarch in Peræa. Tiberias, his
   Galilean residence, with its splendid royal palace, had only been built
   a year or two before; [3129] and it is impossible to suppose, that
   Herod would not have sooner heard of the fame of Jesus, [3130] if his
   court had been in Tiberias, in the immediate neighbourhood of
   Capernaum. We are, therefore, shut up to the conclusion, that during
   the nine or ten months of Christ's Ministry in Galilee, the Tetrarch
   resided in Peræa. Here he had two palaces, one at Julias, or Livias,
   the other at Machærus. The latter will be immediately described as the
   place of the Baptist's imprisonment and martyrdom. The Julias, or
   Livias, of Peræa must be distinguished from another city of that name
   (also called Bethsaida) in the North (east of the Jordan), and within
   the dominions of the Tetrarch Philip. The Julias of Peræa represented
   the ancient Beth Haram in the tribe of Gad, [3131] a name for which
   Josephus gives [3132] Betharamphtha, and the Rabbis Beth Ramthah.
   [3133] [3134] It still survives in the modern Beit-harân. But of the
   fortress and palace which Herod had built, and named after the Empress,
   all that remains' are a few traces of walls and foundations.' [3135]

   Supposing Antipas to have been at the Peræan Julias, he would have been
   in the closest proximity to the scene of the Baptist's last recorded
   labours at AEnon. We can now understand, not only how John was
   imprisoned by Antipas, but also the threefold motives which influenced
   it. According to Josephus, [3136] the Tetrarch was afraid that his
   absolute influence over the people, who seemed disposed to carry out
   whatever he advised, might lead to a rebellion. This circumstance is
   also indicated in the remark of St. Matthew, [3137] that Herod was
   afraid to put the Baptist to death on account of the people's opinion
   of him. On the other hand, the Evangelic statement, [3138] that Herod
   had imprisoned John on account of his declaring his marriage with
   Herodias unlawful, is in no way inconsistent with the reason assigned
   by Josephus. Not only might both motives have influenced Herod, but
   there is an obvious connection between them. For, John's open
   declaration of the unlawfulness of Herod's marriage, as unlike
   incestuous and adulterous, might, in view of the influence which the
   Baptist exercised, have easily led to a rebellion. In our view, the
   sacred text gives indication of yet a third cause which led to John's
   imprisonment, and which indeed, may have given final weight to the
   other two grounds of enmity against him. It has been suggested, that
   Herod must have been attached to the Sadducees, if to any religious
   party, because such a man would not have connected himself with the
   Pharisees. The reasoning is singularly inconclusive. On political
   grounds, a Herod would scarcely have lent his weight to the Sadducean
   or aristocratic priest-party in Jerusalem; while, religiously, only too
   many instances are on record of what the Talmud itself calls painted
   ones, who are like the Pharisees, and who act like Zimri, but expect
   the reward of Phinehas.' [3139] Besides, the Pharisees may have used
   Antipas as their tool, and worked upon his wretched superstition to
   effect their own purposes. And this is what we suppose to have been the
   case. The reference to the Pharisaic spying and to their comparisons
   between the influence of Jesus and John, [3140] which led to the
   withdrawal of Christ into Galilee, seems to imply that the Pharisees
   had something to do with the imprisonment of John. Their connection
   with Herod appears even more clearly in the attempt to induce Christ's
   departure from Galilee, on pretext of Herod's machinations. It will be
   remembered that the Lord unmasked their hypocrisy by bidding them go
   back to Herod, showing that He fully knew that real danger threatened
   Him, not from the Tetrarch, but from the leaders of the party in
   Jerusalem. [3141] Our inference therefore is, that Pharisaic intrigue
   had a very large share in giving effect to Herod's fear of the Baptist
   and of his reproofs.

   3. We suppose, then, that Herod Antipas was at Julias, in the immediate
   neighbourhood of Ænon, at the time of John's imprisonment. But,
   according to Josephus, whose testimony there is no reason to question,
   the Baptist was committed to the strong fortress of Machærus. [3142]
   [3143] If Julias lay where the Wady of the Heshban debouches into the
   Jordan, east of that river, and a little north of the Dead Sea,
   Machærus is straight south of it, about two and a half hours north-west
   of the ancient Kiriathaim (the modern Kurêiyât), the site of
   Chedorlaomer's victory. [3144] Machærus(the modern M'Khaur) marked the
   extreme point south, as Pella that north, in Peræa. As the boundary
   fortress in the south-east (towards Arabia), its safety was of the
   greatest importance, and everything was done to make a place,
   exceedingly strongly by nature, impregnable. It had been built by
   Alexander Jannæus, but destroyed by Gabinius in the wars of Pompey.
   [3145] It was not only restored, but greatly enlarged, by Herod the
   Great, who surrounded it with the best defences known at that time. In
   fact, Herod the Great built a town along the shoulder of the hill, and
   surrounded it by walls, fortified by towers. From this town a farther
   height had to be climbed, on which the castle stood, surrounded by
   walls, and flanked by towers one hundred and sixty cubits high. Within
   the inclosure of the castle Herod had built a magnificent palace. A
   large number of cisterns, storehouses, and arsenals, containing every
   weapon of attack or defence, had been provided to enable the garrison
   to stand a prolonged siege. Josephus describes even its natural
   position as unassailable. The highest point of the fort was on the
   west, where it looked sheer down into a valley. North and south the
   fort was equally cut off by valleys, which could not be filled up for
   siege purposes. On the east there was, indeed, a valley one hundred
   cubits deep, but it terminated in a mountain opposite to Machærus. This
   was evidently the weak point of the situation. [3146]

   A late and very trustworthy traveller [3147] has pronounced the
   description of Josephus [3148] as sufficiently accurate, although
   exaggerated, and as probably not derived from personal observation. He
   has also furnished such pictorial details, that we can transport
   ourselves to that rocky keep of the Baptist, perhaps the more vividly
   that, as we wander over the vast field of stones, upturned foundations,
   and broken walls around, we seem to view the scene in the lurid sunset
   of judgment. A rugged line of upturned squared stones' shows the old
   Roman paved road to Machærus. Ruins covering quite a square mile, on a
   group of undulating hills, mark the site of the ancient town of
   Machærus. Although surrounded by a wall and towers, its position is
   supposed not to have been strategically defensible. Only a mass of
   ruins here, with traces of a temple to the Syrian Sun-God, broken
   cisterns, and desolateness all around. Crossing a narrow deep valley,
   about a mile wide, we climb up to the ancient fortress on a conical
   hill. Altogether it covered a ridge of more than a mile. The key of the
   position was a citadel to the extreme east of the fortress. It occupied
   the summit of the cone, was isolated, and almost impregnable, but very
   small. We shall return to examine it. Meanwhile, descending a steep
   slope about 150 yards towards the west, we reach the oblong flat
   plateau that formed the fortress, containing Herod's magnificent
   palace. Here, carefully collected, are piled up the stones of which the
   citadel was built. These immense heaps look like a terrible monument of
   judgment.

   We pass on among the ruins. No traces of the royal palace are left,
   save foundations and enormous stones upturned. Quite at the end of this
   long fortress in the west, and looking southwards, is a square fort. We
   return, through what we regard as the ruins of the magnificent
   castle-palace of Herod, to the highest and strongest part of the
   defences - the eastern keep or the citadel, on the steep slope 150
   yards up. The foundations of the walls all around, to the height of a
   yard or two above the ground, are still standing. As we clamber over
   them to examine the interior, we notice how small this keep is: exactly
   100 yards in diameter. There are scarcely any remains of it left. A
   well of great depth, and a deep cemented cistern with the vaulting of
   the roof still complete, and - of most terrible interest to us - two
   dungeons, one of them deep down, its sides scarcely broken in, with
   small holes still visible in the masonry where staples of wood and iron
   had once been fixed!' As we look down into its hot darkness, we shudder
   in realising that this terrible keep had for nigh ten months been the
   prison of that son of the free wilderness,' the bold herald of the
   coming Kingdom, the humble, earnest, self-denying John the Baptist. Is
   this the man whose testimony about the Christ may be treated as a
   falsehood?

   We withdraw our gaze from trying to pierce this gloom and to call up in
   it the figure of the camel-hair-clad and leather-girt preacher, and
   look over the ruins at the scene around. We are standing on a height
   not less than 3,800 feet above the Dead Sea. In a straight line it
   seems not more than four or five miles; and the road down to it leads,
   as it were, by a series of ledges and steps. We can see the whole
   extent of this Sea of Judgment, and its western shores from north to
   south. We can almost imagine the Baptist, as he stands surveying this
   noble prospect. Far to the south stretches the rugged wilderness of
   Judæa, bounded by the hills of Hebron. Here nestles Bethlehem, there is
   Jerusalem. Or, turning another way, and looking into the deep cleft of
   the Jordan valley: this oasis of beauty is Jericho; beyond it, like a
   silver thread, Jordan winds through a burnt, desolate-looking country,
   till it is lost to view in the haze which lies upon the edge of the
   horizon. As the eye of the Baptist travelled over it, he could follow
   all the scenes of His life and labours, from the home of his childhood
   in the hill-country of Judæa, to those many years of solitude and
   communing with God in the wilderness, and then to the first place of
   his preaching and Baptism, and onwards to that where he had last spoken
   of the Christ, just before his own captivity. And now the deep dungeon
   in the citadel on the one side, and, on the other, down that slope, the
   luxurious palace of Herod and his adulterous, murderous wife, while the
   shouts of wild revelry and drunken merriment rise around! Was this the
   Kingdom he had come to announce as near at hand; for which he had
   longed, prayed, toiled, suffered, utterly denied himself and all that
   made life pleasant, and the rosy morning of which he had hailed with
   hymns of praise? Where was the Christ? Was He the Christ? What was He
   doing? Was he eating and drinking all this while with publicans and
   sinners, when he, the Baptist, was suffering for Him? Was He in His
   Person and Work so quite different from himself? and why was He so? And
   did the hot haze and mist gather also over this silver thread in the
   deep cleft of Israel's barren burnt-up desolateness?

   4. In these circumstances we scarcely wonder at the feelings of John's
   disciples, as months of this weary captivity passed. Uncertain what to
   expect, they seem to have oscillated between Machærus and Capernaum.
   Any hope in their Master's vindication and deliverance lay in the
   possibilities involved in the announcement he had made of Jesus as the
   Christ. And it was to Him that their Master's finger had pointed them.
   Indeed, some of Jesus' earliest and most intimate disciples had come
   from their ranks; and, as themselves had remarked, the multitude had
   turned to Jesus even before the Baptist's imprisonment. [3149] And yet,
   could He be the Christ? How many things about Him that were strange and
   seemed inexplicable! In their view, there must have been a terrible
   contrast between him who lay in the dungeon of Machærus, and Him Who
   sat down to eat and drink at a feast of the publicans.

   His reception of publicans and sinners they could understand; their own
   Master had not rejected them. But why eat and drink with them? Why
   feasting, and this in a time when fasting and prayer would have seemed
   specially appropriate? And, indeed, was not fasting always appropriate?
   And yet this new Messiah had not taught his disciples either to fast or
   what to pray! The Pharisees, in their anxiety to separate between Jesus
   and His Forerunner, must have told them all this again and again, and
   pointed to the contrast.

   At any rate, it was at the instigation of the Pharisees, and in company
   with them, [3150] that the disciples of John propounded to Jesus this
   question about fasting and prayer, immediately after the feast in the
   house of the converted Levi-Matthew. [3151] We must bear in mind that
   fasting and prayer, or else fasting and alms, or all the three, were
   always combined. Fasting represented the negative, prayer and alms the
   positive element, in the forgiveness of sins. Fasting, as
   self-punishment and mortification, would avert the anger of God and
   calamities. Most extraordinary instances of the purposes in view in
   fasting, and of the results obtained are told in Jewish legend, which
   (as will be remembered) went so far as to relate how a Jewish saint was
   thereby rendered proof against the fire of Gehenna, of which a
   realistic demonstration was given when his body was rendered proof
   against ordinary fire. [3152]

   Even apart from such extravagances, [3153] Rabbinism gave an altogether
   external aspect to fasting. In this it only developed to its utmost
   consequences a theology against which the Prophets of old had already
   protested. Perhaps, however, the Jews are not solitary in their
   misconception and perversion of fasting. In their view, it was the
   readiest means of turning aside any threatening calamity, such as
   drought, pestilence, or national danger. This, ex opere operato:
   because fasting was self-punishment and mortification, not because a
   fast meant mourning (for sin, not for its punishment), and hence
   indicated humiliation, acknowledgment of sin, and repentance. The
   second and fifth days of the week (Monday and Thursday) [3154] were
   those appointed for public fasts, because Moses was supposed to have
   gone up the Mount for the second Tables of the Law on a Thursday, and
   to have returned on a Monday. The self-introspection of Pharisaism led
   many to fast on these two days all the year round, [3155] just as in
   Temple-times not a few would offer daily trespass-offering for sins of
   which they were ignorant. Then there were such painful minutiæ of
   externalism, as those which ruled how, on a less strict fast, a person
   might wash and anoint; while on the strictest fast, it was prohibited
   even to salute one another. [3156] [3157]

   It may well have been, that it was on one of those weekly fasts that
   the feast of Levi-Matthew had taken place, and that this explains the
   expression: And John's disciples and the Pharisees were fasting. [3158]
   [3159] This would give point to their complaint,' Thy disciples fast
   not.' Looking back upon the standpoint from which they viewed fasting,
   it is easy to perceive why Jesus could not have sanctioned, not even
   tolerated, the practice among His disciples, as little as St. Paul
   could tolerate among Judaising Christians the, in itself indifferent,
   practice of circumcision. But it was not so easy to explain this at the
   time of the disciples of John. For, to understand it, implied already
   entire transformation from the old to the new spirit. Still more
   difficult must it have been to do it in in such manner, as at the same
   time to lay down principles that would rule all similar questions to
   all ages. But our Lord did both, and even thus proved His Divine
   Mission.

   The last recorded testimony of the Baptist had pointed to Christ as the
   Bridegroom.' [3160] As explained in a previous chapter, John applied
   this in a manner which appealed to popular custom. As he had pointed
   out, the Presence of Jesus marked the marriage-week. By universal
   consent and according to Rabbinic law, this was to be a time of unmixed
   festivity. [3161] Even in the Day of Atonement a bride was allowed to
   relax one of the ordinances of that strictest fast. [3162] During the
   marriage-week all mourning was to be suspended - even the obligation of
   the prescribed daily prayers ceased. It was regarded as a religious
   duty to gladden the bride and bridegroom. Was it not, then,
   inconsistent on the part of John's disciples to expect the sons of the
   bride-chamber' to fast, so long as the Bridegroom was with them?

   This appeal of Christ is still further illustrated by the Talmudic
   ordinance [3163] which absolved the friends of the bridegroom,' and all
   the sons of the bride-chamber,' even from the duty of dwelling in
   booths (at the Feast of Tabernacles). The expression, sons of the
   bride-chamber' ({hebrew}), which means all invited guests, has the more
   significance, when we remember that the Covenant-union between God and
   Israel was not only compared to a marriage, but the Tabernacle and
   Temple designated as the bridal chambers.' [3164] [3165] And, as the
   institution of friends of the bridegroom' prevailed in Judæa, but not
   in Galilee, this marked distinction of the friends of the bridegroom,'
   [3166] in the mouth of the Judæan John and sons of the bride-chamber'
   in that of the Galilean Jesus, is itself evidential of historic
   accuracy, as well as of the Judæan authorship of the Fourth Gospel.

   But let it not be thought that it was to be a time of unbroken joy to
   the disciples of Jesus. Nay, the ideas of the disciples of John
   concerning the Messianic Kingdom, as one of resistless outward victory
   and assertion of power, were altogether wrong. The Bridegroom would be
   violently taken from them, and then would be the time for mourning and
   fasting. Not that this necessarily implies literal fasting, any more
   than it excludes it, provided the great principles, more fully
   indicated immediately afterwards, are contrary to the spirit of the
   joyous liberty of the children of God. It is only a sense of sin, and
   the felt absence of the Christ, which should lead to mourning and
   fasting, though not in order thereby to avert either the anger of God
   or outward calamity. Besides the evidential force of this highly
   spiritual, and thoroughly un-Jewish view of fasting, we notice some
   other points in confirmation of his, and of the Gospel-history
   generally. On the hypothesis of a Jewish invention of the
   Gospel-history, or of its Jewish embellishment, the introduction of
   this narrative would be incomprehensible. Again, on the theory of a
   fundamental difference in the Apostolic teaching, St. Matthew and St.
   Mark representing the original Judaic, St. Luke the freer Pauline
   development, the existence of this narrative in the first two Gospels
   would seem unaccountable. Or, to take another view - on the hypothesis
   of the much later and non-Judæan (Ephesian) authorship of the Fourth
   Gospel, the minute archæological touches, and the general fitting of
   the words of the Baptist [3167] into the present narrative would be
   inexplicable. Lastly, as against all deniers and detractors of the
   Divine Mission of Jesus, this early anticipation of His violent removal
   by death, and of the consequent mourning of the Church, proves that it
   came not to him from without, as by the accident of events, but that
   from the beginning He anticipated the end, and pursued it of set,
   steadfast purpose.

   Yet another point in evidence comes to us from the eternal and
   un-Jewish principles implied in the two illustrations, of which Christ
   here made use. [3168] In truth, the Lord's teaching is now carried down
   to its ultimate principles. The slight variations which here occur in
   the Gospel of St. Luke, as, indeed, such exist in so many of the
   narratives of the same events by different Evangelists, should not be
   explained away.' For, the sound critic should never devise an
   explanation for the sake of a supposed difficulty, but truthfully study
   the text - as an interpreter, not an apologist. Such variations of
   detail present no difficulty. As against a merely mechanical
   unspiritual accord, they afford evidence of truthful, independent
   witness, and irrefragable proof that, contrary to modern negative
   criticism, and three narratives are not merely different recensions of
   one and the same original document.

   In general, the two illustrations employed - that of the piece of
   undressed cloth (or, according to St. Luke, a piece torn from a new
   garment) sewed upon the rent of an old garment, and that of the new
   wine put into a old wine-skins - must not be too closely pressed in
   regard to their language. [3169] They seem chiefly to imply this: You
   ask, why do we fast often, but Thy disciples fast not? You are mistaken
   in supposing that the old garment can be retained, and merely its rents
   made good by patching it with a piece of new cloth. Not to speak of the
   incongruity, the effect would only be to make the rent ultimately
   worse. The old garment will not bear mending with the undressed cloth.'
   Christ's was not merely a reformation: all things must become new. Or,
   again, take the other view of it - as the old garment cannot be patched
   from the new, so, on the other hand, can the new wine of the Kingdom
   not be confined in the old forms. It would burst those wine-skins. The
   spirit must, indeed, have its corresponding form of expression; but
   that form must be adapted, and correspond to it. Not the old with a
   little of the new to hold it together where it is rent; but the new,
   and that not in the old wine-skins, but in a form corresponding to the
   substance. Such are the two final principles [3170] - the one primary
   addressed to the Pharisees, the other to the disciples of John, by
   which the illustrative teaching concerning the marriage-feast, with its
   bridal garment and wine of banquet, is carried far beyond the original
   question of the disciples of John, and receives an application to all
   time.

   5. We are in spirit by the mount of God, and about to witness the
   breaking of a terrible storm. [3171] It is one that uproots the great
   trees and rends the rocks; and all we shall watch it solemnly,
   earnestly, as with bared head - or, like Elijah, with face wrap in
   mantle. Weeks had passed, and the disciples of John had come back and
   showed their Master of all these things. He still lay in the dungeon of
   Machærus; his circumstances unchanged - perhaps, more hopeless than
   before. For, Herod was in that spiritually most desperate state: he had
   heard the Baptist, and was much perplexed. And still he heard - but
   only heard - him gladly. [3172] [3173] It was a case by no means
   singular, and of which Felix, often sending for St. Paul, at whose
   preaching of righteousness, temperance, and the judgement to come, he
   had trembled, offers only one of many parallels. That, when hearing
   him, Herod was much perplexed,' we can understand, since he feared him,
   knowing that he was a righteous man and holy,' and thus fearing heard
   him.' But that being much perplexed,' he still heard him gladly,'
   constituted the hopelessness of his case. But was the Baptist right?
   Did it constitute part of his Divine calling to have not only
   denounced, but apparently directly confronted Herod on his adulterous
   marriage? Had he not attempt to lift himself the axe which seemed to
   have slip from the grasp of Him, of Whom the Baptist had hoped and said
   that He would lay it to the root of the tree?

   Such thoughts may have been with him, as he passed from his dungeon to
   the audience of Herod, and from such bootless interviews back to his
   deep keep. Strange as it may seem, it was, perhaps, better for the
   Baptist when he was alone. Much as his disciples honoured and loved
   him, and truly zealous and jealous for him as they were, it was best
   when they were absent. There are times when affection only pains, by
   forcing on our notice inability to understand, and adding to our sorrow
   that of feeling our inmost being a stranger to those nearest, and who
   love us must. Then, indeed, is a man alone. It is so with the Baptist.
   The state of mind and experience of his disciples had already appeared,
   even in the slight notices of his disciples has already appeared, even
   in the slight notices concerning them. Indeed, had they fully
   understood him, and not ended where he began - which, truly, is the
   characteristic of all sects, in their crystallisation, or, rather,
   ossification of truth - they would not have remained his disciples; and
   this consciousness must also have brought exquisite pain. Their very
   affection for him, and their zeal for his credit (as shown in the
   almost coarse language of their inquiry: John the Baptist hath sent us
   unto Thee, saying, Art Thou He that cometh, or look we for another?'),
   as well as their tenacity of unprogressiveness - were all, so to speak,
   marks of his failure. And, if he had failed with them, had he succeeded
   in anything?

   And yet further and more terrible questions rose in that dark dungeon.
   Like serpents that crept out of its walls, they would uncoil and raise
   their heads with horrible hissing. What if, after all, there had been
   some terrible mistake on his part? At any rate the logic of events was
   against him. He was now the fast prisoner of that Herod, to whom he had
   spoken with authority; in the power of that bold adulteress, Herodias.
   If he were Elijah, the great Tishbite had never been in the hands of
   Ahab and Jezebel. And the Messiah, Whose Elijah he was, moved not;
   could not, or would not, move, but feasted with publicans and sinners!
   Was it all a reality? or - oh, thought too horrible for utterance -
   could it have been a dream, bright but fleeting, uncaused by any
   reality, only the reflection of his own imagination? It must have been
   a terrible hour, and the power of darkness. At the end of one's life,
   and that of such self-denial and suffering, and with a conscience so
   alive to God, which had - when a youth - driven him burning with holy
   zeal into the wilderness, to have such a question meeting him as: Art
   Thou He, or do we wait for another? Am I right, or in error and leading
   others into error? must have been truly awful. Not Paul, when forsaken
   of all he lay in the dungeon, the aged prisoner of Christ; not Huss,
   when alone at Constance he encountered the whole Catholic Council and
   the flames; only He, the God-Man, over Whose soul crept the
   death-coldness of great agony when, one by one, all light of God and
   man seemed to fade out, and only that one remained burning - His own
   faith in the Father, could have experienced bitterness like this. Let
   no one dare to say that the faith of John failed, at least till the
   dark waters have rolled up to his own soul. For mostly all and each of
   us must pass through some like experience; and only our own hearts and
   God know, how death-bitter are the doubts, whether of head or of heart,
   when question after question raises, as with devilish hissing, its
   head, and earth and heaven seem alike silent to us.

   But here we must for a moment pause to ask ourselves this, which
   touches the question of all questions: Surely, such a man as this
   Baptist, so thoroughly disillusioned in that hour, could not have been
   an imposter, and his testimony to Christ a falsehood? Nor yet could the
   record, which gives us this insight into the weakness of the strong man
   and the doubts of the great Testimony-bearer, be a cunningly-invented
   fable. We cannot imagine the record of such a failure, if the narrative
   were an invention. And if this record be true, it is not only of
   present failure, but also of the previous testimony of John. To us, at
   least, the evidential force of this narrative seems irresistible. The
   testimony of the Baptist to Jesus offers the same kind of evidence as
   does that of the human soul to God: in both cases the one points to the
   other, and cannot be understood without it.

   In that terrible conflict John overcame, as we all must overcome. His
   very despair opened the door of hope. The helpless doubt, which none
   could solve but One, he brought to Him around Whom it had gathered.
   Even in this there is evidence for Christ, as the unalterably True One.
   When John asked the question: Do we wait for another? light was already
   struggling through darkness. It was incipient victory even in defeat.
   When he sent his disciples with this question straight to Christ, he
   had already conquered; for such a question addressed to a possibly
   false Messiah has no meaning. And so must it ever be with us. Doubt is
   the offspring of our disease, diseased as is its paternity. And yet it
   cannot be cast aside. It may be the outcome of the worst, or the
   problems of the best souls. The twilight may fade into outer night, or
   it may usher in the day. The answer lies in this: whether doubt will
   lead us to Christ, or from Christ.

   Thus viewed, the question: Art Thou the Coming One, or do we wait for
   another?' indicated faith both in the great promise and in Him to Whom
   it was addressed. The designation The Coming One' (habba), though a
   most truthful expression of Jewish expectancy, was not one ordinarily
   used of the Messiah. But it was invariably used in reference to the
   Messianic age, as the Athid labho, or coming future (literally, the
   prepared for to come), and the Olam habba, the coming world or Æon.
   [3174] But then it implied the setting right of all things by the
   Messiah, the assumption and vindication of His Power. In the mouth of
   John it might therefore mean chiefly this: Art Thou He that is to
   establish the Messianic Kingdom in its outward power, or have we to
   wait for another? In that case, the manner in which the Lord answered
   it would be all the more significant. The messengers came just as He
   was engaged in healing body and soul. [3175] [3176] Without
   interrupting His work, or otherwise noticing their inquiry, He bade
   them tell John for answer what they had seen and heard, and that the
   poor, [3177] are evangelised.' To this, as the inmost characteristic of
   the Messianic Kingdom, He only added, not by way of reproof nor even of
   warning, but as a fresh Beatitude:' Blessed is he, whosoever shall not
   be scandalised in Me.' To faith, but only to faith, this was the most
   satisfactory and complete answer to John's inquiry. And such a sight of
   Christ's distinctive Work and Word, with believing submission to the
   humbleness of the Gospel, is the only true answer to our questions,
   whether of head or heart.

   But a harder saying than this did the Lord speak amidst the
   forthpouring of His testimony to John, when his messengers had left. It
   pointed the hearers beyond their present horizon. Several facts here
   stand out prominently. First, He to Whom John had formerly borne
   testimony, now bore testimony to him; and that, not in the hour when
   John had testified for Him, but when his testimony had wavered and
   almost failed. This is the opposite of what one would have expected, if
   the narrative had been a fiction, while it is exactly what we might
   expect if the narrative be true. Next, we mark that the testimony of
   Christ is as from a higher standpoint. And it is a full vindication as
   well as unstinted praise, spoken, not as in his hearing, but after his
   messengers - who had met a seemingly cold reception - had left. The
   people were not coarsely to misunderstand the deep soul-agony, which
   had issued in John's inquiry. It was not the outcome of a fickleness
   which, like the reed shaken by every wind, was moved by popular
   opinion. Nor was it the result of fear of bodily consequences, such as
   one that pampered the flesh might entertain. Let them look back to the
   time when, in thousands, they had gone into the wilderness to hear his
   preaching. What had attracted them thither? Surely it was, that he was
   the opposite of one swayed by popular opinion, a reed shaken by the
   wind.' And when they had come to him, what had they witnessed? [3178]
   Surely, his dress and food betokened the opposite of pampering or care
   of the body, such as they saw in the courtiers of a Herod. But what
   they did expect, that they really did see: a prophet, and much more
   than a mere prophet, the very Herald of God and Preparer of Messiah's
   Way. [3179] And yet - and this truly was a hard saying and utterly
   un-Judaic - it was neither self-denial nor position, no, not even that
   of the New Testament Elijah, which constituted real greatness, as Jesus
   viewed it, just as nearest relationship constituted not true kinship to
   Him. To those who sought the honour which is not of man's bestowing,
   but of God, to be a little one in the Kingdom of God was greater
   greatness than even the Baptist's.

   But, even so, let there be no mistake. As afterwards St. Paul argued
   with the Jews, that their boast in the Law only increased their guilt
   as breakers of the Law, so here our Lord. The popular concourse to, and
   esteem of, the Baptist, [3180] [3181] did not imply that spiritual
   reception which was due to his Mission. [3182] It only brought out, in
   more marked contrast, the wide inward difference between the expectancy
   of the people as a whole, and the spiritual reality presented to them
   in the Forerunner of the Messiah and in the Messiah Himself. [3183] Let
   them not be deceived by the crowds that had submitted to the Baptism of
   John. From the time that John began to preach the Kingdom, hindrances
   of every kind had been raised. To overcome them and enter the Kingdom,
   it required, as it were, violence like that to enter a city which was
   surrounded by a hostile army. [3184] Even by Jewish admission, [3185]
   the Law and all the prophets prophesied only of the days of Messiah.'
   [3186] John, then, was the last link; and, if they would but have
   received it, he would have been to them the Elijah, the Restorer of all
   things. Selah - he that hath ears, let him hear.'

   Nay, but it was not so. The children of that generation expected quite
   another Elijah and quite another Christ, and disbelieved and
   complained, because the real Elijah and Christ did not meet their
   foolish thoughts. They were like children in a market-place, who
   expected their fellows to adapt themselves to the tunes they played. It
   was as if they said: We have expected great Messianic glory and
   national exaltation, and ye have not responded (we have piped [3187]
   unto you, and ye have not danced'); we have looked for deliverance from
   our national sufferings, and they stirred not your sympathies nor
   brought your help (we have mourned to you, and ye have not lamented').
   But you thought of the Messianic time as children, and of us, as if we
   were your fellows, and shared your thoughts and purposes! And so when
   John came with his stern asceticism, you felt he was not one of you. He
   was in one direction outside your boundary-line, and I, as the Friend
   of sinners, in the other direction. The axe which he wielded you would
   have laid to the tree of the Gentile world, not to that of Israel and
   of sin; the welcome and fellowship which I extended, you would have had
   to the wise' and the righteous,' not to sinners. Such was Israel as a
   whole. And yet there was an election according to grace: the violent,
   who had to fight their way through all this, and who took the Kingdom
   by violence - and so Heaven's Wisdom (in opposition to the children's
   folly) is vindicated [3188] by all her children. [3189] If anything
   were needed to show the internal harmony between the Synoptists and the
   Fourth Gospel, it would be this final appeal, which recalls those other
   words: He came unto His own (things or property), and his own (people,
   they who were His own) received Him not. But as many as received Him,
   to them gave He power (right, authority) to become children of God,
   which were born (begotten,) not . . . of the will of man, but of God.'
   [3190]

   6. The scene once more changes, and we are again at Machærus. [3191]
   Weeks have passed since the return of John's messengers. We cannot
   doubt that the sunlight of faith has again fallen into the dark
   dungeon, nor yet that the peace of restful conviction has filled the
   martyr of Christ. He must have known that his end was at hand, and been
   ready to be offered up. Those not unfrequent conversations, in which
   the weak, superstitious, wicked tyrant was perplexed' and yet heard him
   gladly,' could no longer have inspired even passing hopes of freedom.
   Nor would he any longer expect from the Messiah assertions of power on
   his behalf. He now understood that for which He had come;' he knew the
   better liberty, triumph, and victory which He brought. And what
   mattered it? His life-work had been done, and there was nothing further
   that fell to him or that he could do, and the weary servant of the Lord
   must have longed for his rest.

   It was early spring, shortly before the Passover, the anniversary of
   the death of Herod the Great and of the accession of (his son) Herod
   Antipas to the Tetrarchy. [3192] A fit time this for a
   Belshazzar-feast, when such an one as Herod would gather to a grand
   banquet his lords,' and the military authorities, and the chief men of
   Galilee. It is evening, and the castle-palace is brilliantly lit up.
   The noise of music and the shouts of revelry come across the slope into
   the citadel, and fall into the deep dungeon where waits the prisoner of
   Christ. And now the merriment in the great banqueting-hall has reached
   its utmost height. The king has nothing further to offer his satiated
   guests, no fresh excitement. So let it be the sensuous stimulus of
   dubious dances, and, to complete it, let the dancer be the fair young
   daughter of the king's wife, the very descendant of the Asmonæan
   priest-princes! To viler depth of coarse familiarity even a Herod could
   not have descended.

   She has come, and she has danced, this princely maiden, out of whom all
   maidenhood and all princeliness have been brazed by a degenerate
   mother, wretched offspring of the once noble Maccabees. And she has
   done her best in that wretched exhibition, and pleased Herod and them
   that sat at meat with him. And now, amidst the general plaudits, she
   shall have her reward - and the king swears it to her with loud voice,
   that all around hear it - even to the half of his kingdom. The maiden
   steals out of the banquet-hall to ask her mother what it shall be. Can
   there be doubt or hesitation in the mind of Herodias? If there was one
   object she had at heart, which these ten months she had in vain sought
   to attain: it was the death of John the Baptist. She remembered it all
   only too well - her stormy, reckless past. The daughter of Aristobulus,
   the ill-fated son of the ill-fated Asmonæan princess Mariamme (I.), she
   had been married to her half-uncle, Herod Philip, [3193] the son of
   Herod the Great and of Mariamme (II.), the daughter of the High-Priest
   (Boëthos). At one time it seemed as if Herod Philip would have been
   sole heir of his father's dominions. But the old tyrant had changed his
   testament, and Philip was left with great wealth, but as a private
   person living in Jerusalem. This little suited the woman's ambition. It
   was when his half-brother, Herod Antipas, came on a visit to him at
   Jerusalem, that an intrigue began between the Tetrarch and his
   brother's wife. It was agreed that, after the return of Antipas from
   his impending journey to Rome, he would repudiate his wife, the
   daughter of Aretas, king of Arabia, and wed Herodias. But Aretas'
   daughter heard of the plot, and having obtained her husband's consent
   to go to Machærus, she fled thence to her father. This, of course, led
   to enmity between Antipas and Aretas. Nevertheless, the adulterous
   marriage with Herodias followed. In a few sentences the story may be
   carried to its termination. The woman proved the curse and ruin of
   Antipas. First came the murder of the Baptist, which sent a thrill of
   horror through the people, and to which all the later misfortunes of
   Herod were attributed. Then followed a war with Aretas, in which the
   Tetrarch was worsted. And, last of all, his wife's ambition led him to
   Rome to solicit the title of King, lately given to Agrippa, the brother
   of Herodias. Antipas not only failed, but was deprived of his
   dominions, and banished to Lyons in Gaul. The pride of the woman in
   refusing favours from the Emperor, and her faithfulness to her husband
   in his fallen fortunes, are the only redeeming points in her history.
   [3194] As for Salome, she was first married to her uncle, Philip the
   Tetrarch. Legend has it, that her death was retributive, being in
   consequence of a fall on the ice.

   Such was the woman who had these many months sought with the
   vengefulness and determination of a Jezebel, to rid herself of the
   hated person, who alone had dared publicly denounce her sin, and whose
   words held her weak husband in awe. The opportunity had now come for
   obtaining from the vacillating monarch what her entreaties could never
   have secured. As the Gospel puts it, [3195] instigated' by her mother,
   the damsel hesitated not. We can readily fill in the outlined picture
   of what followed. It only needed the mother's whispered suggestion, and
   still flushed from her dance, Salome reentered the banqueting-hall.
   With haste,' as if no time were to be lost, she went up to king: I
   would that thou forthwith give me in a charger, the head of John the
   Baptist!' Silence must have fallen on the assembly. Even into their
   hearts such a demand from the lips of little more than a child must
   have struck horror. They all knew John to be a righteous and holy man.
   Wicked as they were, in their superstition, if not religiousness, few,
   if any of them, would have willingly lent himself to such work. And
   they all knew, also, why Salome, or rather Herodias, had made this
   demand. What would Herod do? The king was exceeding sorry.' For months
   he had striven against this. His conscience, fear of the people, inward
   horror at the deed, all would have kept him from it. But he had sworn
   to the maiden, who now stood before him, claiming that the pledge be
   redeemed, and every eye in the assembly was now fixed upon him.
   Unfaithful to his God, to his conscience, to truth and righteousness;
   not ashamed of any crime or sin, he would yet be faithful to his
   half-drunken oath, and appear honorable and true before such
   companions!

   It has been but the contest of a moment. Straightway' the king gives
   the order to one of the body-guard. [3196] The maiden hath withdrawn to
   await the result with her mother. The guardsman has left the
   banqueting-hall. Out into the cold spring night, up that slope, and
   into the deep dungeon. As its door opens, the noise of the revelry
   comes with the light of the torch which the man bears. No time for
   preparation is given, nor needed. A few minutes more, and the gory head
   of the Baptist is brought to the maiden in a charger, and she gives the
   ghastly dish to her mother.

   It is all over! As the pale morning light streams into the keep, the
   faithful disciples, who had been told of it, come reverently to bear
   the headless body to the burying. They go forth for ever from that
   accursed place, which is so soon to become a mass of shapeless ruins.
   They go to tell it to Jesus, and henceforth to remain with Him. We can
   imagine what welcome awaited them. But the people ever afterwards
   cursed the tyrant, and looked for those judgments of God to follow,
   which were so soon to descend on him. And he himself was ever
   afterwards restless, wretched, and full of apprehensions. He could
   scarcely believe that the Baptist was really dead, and when the fame of
   Jesus reached him, and those around suggested that this was Elijah, a
   prophet, or as one of them, Herod's mind, amidst its strange
   perplexities, still reverted to the man whom he had murdered. It was a
   new anxiety, perhaps, even so, a new hope; and as formerly he had often
   and gladly heard the Baptist, so now he would fain have seen Jesus.
   [3197] He would see Him; but not now. In that dark night of betrayal,
   he, who at the bidding of the child of an adulteress, had murdered the
   Forerunner, might, with the aprobation of a Pilate, have rescued Him
   whose faithful witness John had been. But night was to merge into yet
   darker night. For it was the time and the power of the Evil One. And
   yet: Jehovah reigneth.'
     __________________________________________________________________

   [3111] This is the only occasion on which they are designated as
   Apostles in the Gospel by St. Mark.

   [3112] St. Matt. xi. 1.

   [3113] Their mission seems to have been short, probably not more than
   two weeks or so. But it seems impossible, in consistency with the
   facts, to confine it to two days, as Bishop Ellicott proposes (Hist.
   Lect. p. 193).

   [3114] St. Mark vi. 12, 13; St. Luke ix. 6.

   [3115] St. Matt xiv. 12, 13; St. Mark vi. 30.

   [3116] St. John vi. 1.

   [3117] St. Mark vii. 24.

   [3118] St. John iii. 22 to iv. 3.

   [3119] Comp. chapter vii. of this Book. For the sake of clearness and
   connection, some points formerly referred to have had to be here
   repeated.

   [3120] St. John ii. 13 to iii. 21.

   [3121] St. John iii. 25 &c.

   [3122] Comp. Sketches of Jewish Social Life,' pp. 152, 153.

   [3123] These verses contain the reflections of the Evangelist, not the
   words of the Baptist, just as previously vv. 16 to 21 are no longer the
   words of Christ but those of St. John.

   [3124] St. John iii. 16 to 21.

   [3125] Comp. Caspari, Chronolog. Georgr. Einl. pp. 83-91.

   [3126] Ænon may even have been in Peræa itself - in that case, on the
   eastern bank of the Jordan.

   [3127] St. John iii. 24.

   [3128] St. John vi. i.

   [3129] Comp. Schürer, Neutest. Zeitgesch. p. 233. As to the name
   Tiberias, comp. p. 635, note 1.

   [3130] St. Matt. xiv. 1.

   [3131] Numb. xxxii. 36; Josh. xiii. 27.

   [3132] Ant. xviii. 2. 1.

   [3133] Jerus. Shev. 38 d.

   [3134] Comp. the references in Böttger, Lex. zu Jos. p. 58.

   [3135] See the description of the site in Tristram, Land of Moab, p.
   348.

   [3136] Ant. xviii. 5. 2.

   [3137] St. Matt. xiv. 5.

   [3138] St. Matt. xiv. 3, 4; St. Mark vi 17, 18.

   [3139] Sot. 22 b.

   [3140] St. John iv. 1, 2.

   [3141] St. Luke xiii. 31-33.

   [3142] Ant. xviii. 5. 2.

   [3143] A little before that it seems belonged to Aretas. We know not,
   how it again passed into the hands of Antipas, if, indeed, it ever was
   fully ceded by him to the Arabs. Comp. Schürer, u.s. p. 239, and
   Wieseler, Chron. Syn. p. 244, Beitr, pp. 5, &c., whose positions are,
   however, not always quite reliable.

   [3144] Gen. xiv. 5.

   [3145] Jewish War i. 8. 5.

   [3146] Here Bassus made his attack in the fast Jewish war (Jos. War
   vii. 6. 1-4).

   [3147] Canon Tristram Land of Moab, pp. 255-265; comp. Baedeker (Socin)
   Palästina, p. 195 and, for the various passages in Josephus referring
   to Machærus, Böttger, u.s. pp. 165-167.

   [3148] War vii. 6. 1, 2.

   [3149] St. John iii. 26.

   [3150] Thus viewed there is no contradiction, not even real variation,
   between St. Matt. ix. 14, St. Mark ii. 18, and St. Luke v. 33.

   [3151] St. Matt. ix. 14-17 and parallels.

   [3152] B. Mez. 85 a, 2 towards the end.

   [3153] Altogether, Baba Mez, 84 a to 85 a contains a mixture of the
   strangest, grossest, and profanest absurdities.

   [3154] Thus a three day's fast would be on the second, fifth, and again
   on the second day of the week.

   [3155] Taan. 12 a; St. Luke xviii. 12.

   [3156] Taan i. 4-7.

   [3157] Comp. The Temple, its Ministry and Services,' pp. 296-298.

   [3158] St. Mark ii. 18.

   [3159] This is the real import of the original.

   [3160] St. John iii. 29.

   [3161] Ber. 6 b.

   [3162] Yoma viii. 1.

   [3163] Jer. Sukk. 53 a, near the middle.

   [3164] {hebrew} Jer. Megill. 72 d 1.

   [3165] And all bride-chambers were only within the portions of
   Benjamin' (the Tabernacle and the Temple). Hence Benjamin was called
   the host of the Lord.'

   [3166] Strangely, the two designations are treated as identical in most
   Commentaries.

   [3167] St. John iii. 29.

   [3168] St. Matt. ix. 16, 17.

   [3169] Godet has shown objections against all previous interpretations.
   But his own view seems to me equally untenable.

   [3170] St. Luke v. 39 seems either a gloss of the writer, or may be
   (though very doubtfully) an interpolation. There is a curious parallel
   to the verse in Ab. iv. 20.

   [3171] St. Luke vii. 18-35; St. Matt. xi. 2-19.

   [3172] St. Mark vi. 20.

   [3173] This is both the correct reading and rendering.

   [3174] The distinction between the two expressions will be further
   explained in the sequel.

   [3175] St. Luke vii. 21.

   [3176] Negative criticism charges St. Luke with having inserted this
   trait, forgetting that it is referred to by St. Matthew.

   [3177] St. Matt. xi. 5.

   [3178] The two terms are different. The query was: would they go out to
   gaze at' a reed, and to see' one in soft clothing.

   [3179] The reader will mark the difference between the quotation as
   made by all the three Evangelists, and our present Hebrew text and the
   LXX., and possibly draw his own inferences.

   [3180] St. Luke vii. 29, 30.

   [3181] This is a sort of parenthetic note by St. Luke.

   [3182] St. Matt. xi. 12-14.

   [3183] St. Matt. xi. 14-19.

   [3184] The common interpretations of this verse have seemed to me
   singularly unsatisfactory.

   [3185] Comp. the Appendix on the Jewish Interpretation of Prophecy.

   [3186] Sanh. 99 a; Ber. 34 b; Shabb. 63 a.

   [3187] The pipe was used both in feasts and at mourning. So the
   Messianic hope had both its joyous and its sorrowful aspect.

   [3188] Literally, justified. The expression is a Hebraism.

   [3189] I cannot accept the reading works' in St. Mark.

   [3190] St. John i. 11-13.

   [3191] As, according to Josephus, John was executed at Machærus, the
   scene must have been there, and not either at Tiberias or at Julias.

   [3192] The expression gensia leaves it doubtful, whether it was the
   birthday of Herod or the anniversary of his accession. Wieseler
   maintains that the Rabbinic equivalent (Ginuseya, or Giniseya) means
   the day of accession, Meyer the birthday. In truth it is used for both.
   But in Abod. Z. 10 a (about the middle) the Yom Ginuseya is expressly
   and elaborately shown to be the day of accession. Otherwise also the
   balance of evidence is in favour of this view. The event described in
   the text certainly took place before the Passover, and this was the
   time of Herod's death and of the accession of Antipas. It is not
   likely, that the Herodians would have celebrated their birthdays.

   [3193] From the circumstance that Josephus calls him Herod and not
   Philip, a certain class of critics have imputed error to the
   Evangelists (Schürer, u. s., p. 237). But it requires to be kept in
   view, that in that case the Evangelists would be guilty not of one but
   of two gross historical errors. They would (1) have confounded this
   Herod with his half-brother Philip. the Tetrarch, and (2) made him the
   husband of Herodias, instead of being her son-in-law, Philip the
   Tetrarch having married Salome. Two such errors are altogether
   inconceivable in so well-known a history, with which the Evangelists
   otherwise show such familiarity. On the other hand, there are internal
   reasons for believing that this Herod had a second name. Among the
   eight sons of Herod the Great there are three who bear his name
   (Herod). Of only one, Herod Antipas, we know the second name (Antipas).
   But, as for example in the case of the Bonaparte family, it is most
   unlikely that the other two should have borne the name of Herod without
   any distinctive second name. Hence we conclude, that the name Philip,
   which occurs in the Gospels (in St. Luke iii. 19 it is spurious), was
   the second name of him whom Josephus simply names as Herod. If it be
   objected, that in such case Herod would have had two sons named Philip,
   we answer (1) that he had two sons of the name Antipas, or Antipater,
   (2) that they were the sons of different mothers, and (3) that the full
   name of the one was Herod Philip (first husband of Herodias), and of
   the other simply Philip the Tetrarch (husband of Salome, and son-in-law
   of Herodias and of Herod Philip her first husband). Thus for
   distinction's sake the one might have been generally called simply
   Herod, the other Philip.

   [3194] Jos. Ant. xviii. 7. 1, 2; War ii. 9. 6.

   [3195] St. Matt. xiv. 8.

   [3196] A spekoultor, speculator, one of a body-guard which had come
   into use, who attended the Cæsars, executed their behests and often
   their sudden sentences of death (from speculor). The same word occurs
   in Rabbinic Hebrew as Sephaqlator ({hebrew}), or Isphaqlator
   ({hebrew}), and is applied to one who carries out the sentence of
   execution (Shabb. 108 a).

   [3197] St. Luke ix. 9.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XXIX.
THE MIRACULOUS FEEDING OF THE FIVE THOUSAND

   (St. Matt. xiv. 13-21; St. Mark vi. 30-44; St. Luke ix. 10-17; St. John
   vi. 1-14)

   In the circumstances described in the previous chapter, Jesus resolved
   at once to leave Capernaum; and this probably alike for the sake of His
   disciples, who needed rest; for that of the people, who might have
   attempted a rising after the murder of the Baptist; and temporarily to
   withdraw Himself and His followers from the power of Herod. For this
   purpose He chose the place outside the dominions of Antipas, nearest to
   Capernaum. This was Beth-Saida (the house of fishing,' Fisher-town,'
   [3198] as we might call it), on the eastern border of Galilee, [3199]
   just within the territory of the Tetrarch Philip. Originally a small
   village, Philip had converted it into a town, and named it Julias,
   after Cæsar's daughter. It lay on the eastern bank of Jordan, just
   before that stream enters the Lake of Galilee. [3200] It must, however,
   not be confounded with the other Fisher-town,' or Bethsaida, on the
   western shore of the Lake, [3201] which the Fourth Gospel, evidencing
   by this local knowledge its Judæan, or rather Galilean, authorship,
   distinguishes from the eastern as Bethsaida of Galilee.' [3202] [3203]

   Other minute points of deep interest in the same direction will present
   themselves in the course of this narrative. Meantime we note, that this
   is the only history, previous to Christ's last visit to Jerusalem,
   which is recorded by all the four Evangelists; the only series of
   events also in the whole course of that Galilean Ministry, which
   commenced after His return from the Unknown Feast,' [3204] which is
   referred to in the Fourth Gospel; [3205] and that it contains to
   distinct notices as to time, which enable us to fit it exactly into the
   frame-work of this history. For, the statement of the Fourth Gospel,
   [3206] that the Passover was nigh,' [3207] is confirmed by the
   independent notice of St. Mark, [3208] that those whom the Lord
   miraculously led were ranged on the green grass.' In that climate there
   would have been no green grass' soon after the Passover. We must look
   upon the coincidence of these two notices as one of the undesigned
   confirmations of their narrative.

   For, miraculous it certainly is, and the attempts rationalistically to
   explain it, to sublimate it into a parable, to give it the
   spiritualistic meaning of spiritual feeding, or to account for its
   mythical origin by the precedent of the descent of the manna, or of the
   miracle of Elisha, [3209] are even more palpable failures than those
   made to account for the miracle at Cana. The only alternative is to
   accept - or entirely to reject it. In view of the exceptional record of
   this history in all the four Gospels, no unbiased historical student
   would treat it as a simple invention, for which there was no ground in
   reality. Nor can its origin be accounted for by previous Jewish
   expectancy, or Old Testament precedent. The only rational mode of
   explaining it is on the supposition of its truth. This miracle, and
   what follows, mark the climax in our Lord's doing, as the healing of
   the Syro-Phoenician maiden the utmost sweep of His activity, and the
   Transfiguration the highest point in regard to the miraculous about His
   Person. The only reason which can be assigned for the miracle of His
   feeding the five thousand was that of all His working: Man's need, and,
   in view of it, the stirring of the Pity and Power that were King Herod,
   and the banquet that ended with the murder of the Baptist, and King
   Jesus, and the banquet that ended with His lonely prayer on the
   mountain-side, the calming of the storm on the lake, and the
   deliverance from death of His disciples.

   Only a few hours' sail from Capernaum, and even a shorter distance by
   land (round the head of the Lake) lay the district of the
   Bethsaida-Julias. It was natural that Christ, wishing to avoid public
   attention, should have gone by ship,' and equally so that the many
   seeing them departing, and knowing' - viz., what direction the boat was
   taking, should have followed on foot, and been joined by others from
   the neighbouring villages, [3210] as those from Capernaum passed
   through them, perhaps, also, as they recognised on the Lake the now
   well-known sail, [3211] speeding towards the other shore. It is an
   incidental but interesting confirmation of the narrative, that the same
   notice about this journey occurs, evidently undesignedly, in St. John
   vi. 22. Yet another we find in the fact, that some of those who ran
   there on foot' had reached the place before Jesus and His Apostles.
   [3212] Only some, as we judge. The largest proportion arrived later,
   and soon swelled to the immense number of about 5,000 men,' besides
   women and children.' The circumstances that the Passover was nigh at
   hand, so that many must have been starting on their journey to
   Jerusalem, round the Lake and through Peræa, partly accounts for the
   concourse of such multitudes. And this, perhaps in conjunction with the
   effect on the people of John's murder, may also explain their ready and
   eager gathering to Christ, thus affording yet another confirmation of
   the narrative.

   It was a well-known spot where Jesus and His Apostles touched the
   shore. Not many miles south of it was the Gerasa or Gergesa, where the
   great miracle of healing the demonished had been wrought. [3213] Just
   beyond Gerasa the mountains and hills recede, and the plain along the
   shore enlarges, till it attains wide proportions on the northern bank
   of the Lake. The few ruins which mark the site of Bethsaida-Julias -
   most of the basalt-stones having been removed for building purposes -
   lie on the edge of a hill, three or four miles north of the Lake. The
   ford, by which those who came from Capernaum crossed the Jordan, was,
   no doubt, that still used, about two miles from where the river enters
   the Lake. About a mile further, on that wide expanse of grass, would be
   the scene of the great miracle. In short, the locality throughly
   accords with the requirements of the Gospel-narrative.

   As we picture it to ourselves, our Lord with His disciples, and perhaps
   followed by those who had outrun the rest, first retired to the top of
   a height, and there rested in teaching converse with them. [3214]
   Presently, as He saw the great multitudes gathering, He was moved with
   compassion towards them.' [3215] [3216] There could be no question of
   retirement or rest in view of this. Surely, it was the opportunity
   which God had given - a call which came to Him from His Father. Every
   such opportunity was unspeakably precious to Him, Who longed to gather
   the lost under His wings. It might be, that even now they would learn
   what belonged to their peace. Oh, that they would learn it! At least,
   He must work while it was called to-day, ere the night of judgment
   came; work with that unending patience and intense compassion which
   made Him weep, when He could no longer work. It was this depth of
   longing and intenseness of pity which now ended the Saviour's rest, and
   brought Him down from the hill to meet the gathering multitude in the
   desert' plain beneath.

   And what a sight to meet His gaze - these thousands of strong men,
   besides women and children; and what thoughts of the past, the present,
   and the future, would be called up by the scene! The Passover was
   nigh,' [3217] with its remembrances of the Paschal night, the Paschal
   Lamb, the Paschal Supper, the Paschal deliverance - and most of them
   were Passover-pilgrims on their way to Jerusalem. These
   Passover-pilgrims and God's guests, now streaming out into this desert
   after Him; with a murdered John just buried, and no earthly teacher,
   guide, or help left! Truly they were as sheep having no shepherd.'
   [3218] The very surroundings seemed to give to the thought the
   vividness of a picture: this wandering, straying multitude, the desert
   sweep of country, the very want of provisions. A Passover, indeed, but
   of which He would be the Paschal Lamb, the Bread which He gave, the
   Supper, and around which He would gather those scattered, shepherdless
   sheep into one flock of many companies,' to which His Apostles would
   bring the bread He had blessed and broken, to their sufficient and more
   than sufficient nourishment; from which, indeed, they would carry the
   remnant-baskets full, after the flock had been fed, to the poor in the
   outlying places of far-off heathendom. And so thoughts of the past, the
   present, and the future must have mingled - thoughts of the Passover in
   the past, of the Last, the Holy Supper in the future, and of the deeper
   inward meaning and bearing of both the one and the other; thoughts also
   of this flock, and of that other flock which was yet to gather, and of
   the far-off places, and of the Apostles and their service, and of the
   provision which they were to carry from His Hands - a provision never
   exhausted by present need, and which always leaves enough to carry
   thence and far away.

   There is, at least in our view, no doubt that thoughts of the Passover
   and of the Holy Supper, of their commingling and mystic meaning, were
   present to the Saviour, and that it is in this light the miraculous
   feeding of the multitude must be considered, if we are in any measure
   to understand it. Meantime the Saviour was moving among them -
   beginning to teach them many things,' [3219] and healing them that had
   need of healing.' [3220] Yet, as He so moved and thought of it all,
   from the first, He Himself knew what He was about to do.' [3221] And
   now the sun had passed its meridian, and the shadows fell longer on the
   surging crowd. Full of the thoughts of the great Supper, which was
   symbolically to link the Passover of the past with that of the future,
   and its Sacramental continuation to all time, He turned to Philip with
   this question: Whence are we to buy bread, that these may eat?' It was
   to try him,' and show how he would view and meet what, alike
   spiritually and temporally, has so often been the great problem.
   Perhaps there was something in Philip which made it specially
   desirable, that the question should be put to him. [3222] At any rate,
   the answer of Philip showed that there had been a need be' for it. This
   - two hundred denarii (between six and seven pounds) worth of bread is
   not sufficient for them, that every one may take a little,' is the
   course realism, not of unbelief, but of an absence of faith which,
   entirely ignoring any higher possibility, has not even its hope left in
   a Thou knowest, Lord.'

   But there is evidence, also, that the question of Christ worked deeper
   thinking and higher good. As we understand it, Philip told it to
   Andrew, and they to the others. While Jesus taught and healed, they
   must have spoken together of this strange question of the Master. They
   knew Him sufficiently to judge, that it implied some purpose on His
   part. Did He intend to provide for all that multitude? They counted
   them roughly - going along the edge and through the crowd - and
   reckoned them by thousands, besides women and children. They thought of
   all the means for feeding such a multitude. How much had they of their
   own? As we judge by combining the various statements, there was a lad
   there who carried the scant, humble provisions of the party - perhaps a
   fisher-lad brought for the purpose from the boat. [3223] It would take
   quite what Philip had reckoned - about two hundred denarii - if the
   Master meant them to go and buy victuals for all that multitude.
   Probably the common stock - at any rate as computed by Judas, who
   carried the bag - did not contain that amount. In any case, the right
   and the wise thing was to dismiss the multitude, that they might go
   into the towns and villages and buy for themselves victuals, and find
   lodgment. For already the bright spring-day was declining, and what was
   called the first evening' had set in. [3224] For the Jews reckoned two
   evenings, although it is not easy to determine the exact hour when each
   began and ended. But, in general, the first evening may be said to have
   begun when the sun declined, and it was probably reckoned as lasting to
   about the ninth hour, or three o'clock of the afternoon. [3225] Then
   began the period known as between the evenings,' which would be longer
   or shorter according to the season of the year, and which terminated
   with the second evening' - the time from when the first star appeared
   to that when the third star was visible. [3226] With the night began
   the reckoning of the following day.

   It was the first evening' when the disciples, whose anxiety must have
   been growing with the progress of time, asked the Lord to dismiss the
   people. But it was as they had thought. He would have them give the
   people to eat! Were they, then, to go and buy two hundred denarii worth
   of loaves? No - they were not to buy, but to give of their own store!
   How many loaves had they! Let them go and see. [3227] And when Andrew
   went to see what store the fisher-lad carried for them, he brought back
   the tidings, He hath five barley loaves and two small fishes,' to which
   he added, half in disbelief, half in faith's rising expectancy of
   impossible possibility: But what are they among so many?' [3228] It is
   to the fourth Evangelist alone that we owe the record of this remark,
   which we instinctively feel gives to the whole the touch of truth and
   life. It is to him also that we owe other two minute traits of deepest
   interest, and of far greater importance than at first sight appears.

   When we read that these five were barley-loaves, we learn that, no
   doubt from voluntary choice, the fare of the Lord and of His followers
   was the poorest. Indeed, barley-bread was, almost proverbially, the
   meanest. Hence, as the Mishnah puts it, while all other meat-offerings
   were of wheat, that brought by the woman accused of adultery was to be
   of barley, because (so R. Gamaliel puts it), as her deed is that of
   animals, so her offering is also of the food of animals.' [3229] The
   other minute trait in St. John's Gospel consists in the use of a
   peculiar word for fish' (psrion), opsarion,' which properly means what
   was eaten along with the bread, and specially refers to the small, and
   generally dried or pickled fish eaten with bread, like our sardines,'
   or the caviar' of Russia, the pickled herrings of Holland and Germany,
   or a peculiar kind of small dried fish, eaten with the bones, in the
   North of Scotland. Now just as any one who would name that fish as
   eaten with bread, would display such minute knowledge of the habits of
   the North-east of Scotland as only personal residence could give, so in
   regard to the use of this term, which, be it marked, is peculiar to the
   Fourth Gospel, Dr. Westcott suggests, that it may have been a familiar
   Galilean word,' and his conjecture is correct, for Ophsonin ({hebrew})
   derived from the same Greek word (pson), of which that used by St. John
   is the diminutive, means a savoury dish,' while Aphyan ({hebrew}) or
   Aphits ({hebrew}), is the term for a kind of small fish, such as
   sardines. The importance of tracing accurate local knowledge in the
   Fourth Gospel warrants our pursuing the subject further. The Talmud,
   declares that of all kinds of meat, fish only becomes more savoury by
   salting, [3230] and names certain kinds, specially designated as small
   fishes,' [3231] which might be eaten without being cooked. Small fishes
   were recommended for health; [3232] and a kind of pickle or savoury was
   also made of them. Now the Lake of Galilee was particularly rich in
   these fishes, and we know that both the salting and pickling of them
   was a special industry among its fishermen. For this purpose a small
   kind of them were specially selected, which bear the name Terith
   ({hebrew}). [3233] Now the diminutive used by St. John (psrion) of
   which our Authorized Version no doubt gives the meaning fairly by
   rendering it small fishes,' refers, no doubt, to those small fishes
   (probably a kind of sardine) of which millions were caught in the Lake,
   and which, dried and salted, would form the most common savoury' with
   bread for the fisher-population along the shores.

   If the Fourth Gospel in the use of this diminutive displays such
   special Lake-knowledge as evidences its Galilean origin, another
   touching trait connected with its use may here be mentioned. It has
   already been said that the term is used only by St. John, as if to mark
   the Lake of Galilee origin of the Fourth Gospel. But only once again
   does the expression occur in the Fourth Gospel. On that morning, when
   the Risen One manifested Himself by the Lake of Galilee to them who had
   all the night toiled in vain, He had Provided for them miraculously the
   meal, when on the fire of charcoal' they saw the well-remembered little
   fish' (the opsarion), and, as He bade them bring of the little fish'
   (the Opsaria) which they had miraculously caught, Peter drew to shore
   the net full, not of opsaria, but of great fishes' (chthon meglon). And
   yet it was not of those great fishes' that He gave them, but He took
   the bread and gave them, and the opsarion likewise.' [3234] Thus, in
   infinite humility, the meal at which the Risen Saviour sat down with
   His disciples was still of bread and small fishes' - even though He
   gave them, the draught of large fishes; and so at that last meal He
   recalled that first miraculous feeding by the Lake of Galilee. And this
   also is one of those undesigned, too often unobserved traits in the
   narrative, which yet carry almost irresistible evidence.

   There is one proof at least of the implicit faith or rather trust of
   the disciples in their Master. They had given Him account of their own
   scanty provision, and yet, as He bade them make the people sit down to
   the meal, they hesitated not to obey. We can picture it to ourselves,
   what is so exquisitely sketched: the expanse of grass.' [3235] green,'
   and fresh, [3236] much grass;' [3237] then the people in their
   companies' [3238] of fifties and hundreds, reclining, [3239] and
   looking in their regular divisions, and with their bright many-coloured
   dresses, like garden-beds' [3240] [3241] on the turf. But One Figure
   must every eye have been bent. Around Him stood His Apostles. They had
   laid before Him the scant provision made for their own wants, and which
   was now to feed their great multitude. As was wont at meals, on the
   part of the head of the household, Jesus took the bread, blessed'
   [3242] or, as St. John puts it, gave thanks,' [3243] and brake' it. The
   expression recalls that connected with the Holy Eucharist, and leaves
   little doubt on the mind that, in the Discourse delivered in the
   Synagogue of Capernaum, [3244] there is also reference to the Lord's
   Supper. As of comparatively secondary importance, yet helping us better
   to realise the scene, we recall the Jewish ordinance, that the Head of
   the meal, yet if they who sat down to it were not merely guests, but
   his children, or his household, then might he speak it, even if he
   himself did not partake of the bread which he had broken. [3245]

   We can scarcely be mistaken as to the words which Jesus spake when He
   gave thanks.' The Jewish Law [3246] allows the grace at meat to be
   said, not only in Hebrew, but in any language, the Jerusalem Talmud
   aptly remarking, that it was proper a person should understand to Whom
   he was giving thanks ({hebrew}). [3247] Similarly, we have very
   distinct information as regards a case like the present. We gather,
   that the use of savoury' with bread was specially common around the
   Lake of Galilee, and the Mishnah lays down the principle, that if bread
   and savory' were eaten, it would depend which of the two was the main
   article of diet, to determine whether thanksgiving' should be said for
   one or the other. In any case only one benediction was to be used.
   [3248] In this case, of course, it would be spoken over the bread, the
   savory' being merely an addition. There can be little doubt, therefore,
   that the words which Jesus spake, whether in Aramæan, Greek, or Hebrew,
   were those so well known: Blessed art Thou, Jehovah our God, King of
   the world, Who causes to come forth ({hebrew}) bread from the earth.'
   Assuredly it was this threefold thought: the upward thought (sursum
   corda), the recognition of the creative act as regards every piece of
   bread we eat, and the thanksgiving, which was realised anew in all its
   fulness, when, as He distributed to the disciples, the provision
   miraculously multiplied in His Hands. And still they bore it from His
   Hands from company to company, laying before each a store. When they
   were all filled, He that had provided the meal bade them gather up the
   fragments before each company. So doing, each of the twelve had his
   basket filled. Here also we have another life-touch. Those baskets'
   (kphinoi), known in Jewish writings by a similar name (Kephiphah), made
   of wicker or willows [3249] ({hebrew}) were in common use, but
   considered of the poorest kind. [3250] There is a sublimeness of
   contrast that passes description between this feast to the five
   thousand, besides women and children and the poor's provision of barley
   bread and the two small fishes; and, again, between the quantity left
   and the coarse wicker baskets in which it was stored. Nor do we forget
   to draw mentally the parallel between this Messianic feast and that
   banquet of the latter days' which Rabbinism pictured so realistically.
   But as the wondering multitude watched, as the disciples gathered from
   company to company the fragments into their baskets, the murmur ran
   through the ranks: This is truly the Prophet, This is truly the
   Prophet, "the coming One" (habba, {hebrew}) into the world.' And so the
   Baptist's last inquiry, Art Thou the Coming One?' [3251] was fully and
   publicly answered, and that by the Jews themselves.

   THE ASCENT: FROM THE RIVER JORDAN TO THE MOUNT OF TRANSFIGURATION
     __________________________________________________________________

   [3198] The common reading, House of fishes,' is certainly inaccurate.
   Its Aramaic equivalent would be probably {hebrew}. Tseida means
   literally hunting as well as fishing, having special reference to
   catching in a snare or net. Possibly, but not so likely, it may have
   been {hebrew} (Tsayyada), house of a snareer-huntsman, here fisher. It
   will be noticed, that we retain the textus receptus of St. Luke ix. 10.

   [3199] Jos. War iii. 3. 5.

   [3200] Jos. Ant. xviii. 2. 1.

   [3201] I do not quite understand the reasoning of Captain Conder on
   this point (Handb. of the Bible, pp. 321, &c.), but I cannot agree with
   his conclusions.

   [3202] St. John xii. 21; comp. i. 44; St. Mark vi. 45.

   [3203] On the whole question comp. the Encyclopædias, Caspari u. s. pp.
   81, 83; Baedeker (Socin), p. 267; Tristram, Land of Israel, p. 443 &c.

   [3204] St. John v.

   [3205] Professor Westcott notes, that the account of St. John could
   neither have been derived from those of the Synoptists, nor from any
   common original, from which their narratives are by some supposed to
   have been derived.

   [3206] St. John vi. 4.

   [3207] There is no valid reason for doubting the genuineness of these
   words, or giving them another meaning than in the text. Comp. Westcott,
   ad. loc.

   [3208] St. Mark vi. 39.

   [3209] Even those who hold such views assert them in this instance
   hesitatingly. It seems almost impossible to conceive, that a narrative
   recorded in all the four Gospels should not have an historical basis,
   and the appeal to the precedent of Elisha is the more inapt, that in
   common Jewish thinking he was not regarded as specially the type of the
   Messiah.

   [3210] This seems the fair meaning of St. Mark vi. 31-33, comp. with
   St. Matt. xiv. 13.

   [3211] St. Mark vi. 32 has it by (or rather in) the ship,' with the
   definite article. Probably it was the same boat that was always at His
   disposal, perhaps belonging to the sons of Jonas or to the sons of
   Zebedee.

   [3212] St. Mark vi. 33.

   [3213] St. Mark v. 1-16.

   [3214] St. John vi. 3.

   [3215] St. Matt. xiv. 14.

   [3216] Canon Westcott supposes that a day of teaching and healing must
   be intercalated before the miracle of feeding,' but I cannot see any
   reason for this. All the events fit well into one day.

   [3217] St. John vi. 4.

   [3218] St. Mark vi. 34.

   [3219] St. Mark vi. 34.

   [3220] St. Luke ix. 11.

   [3221] St. John vi. 6.

   [3222] Comp. St. John xiv. 8, 9.

   [3223] Comp. St. John vi. 9 with St. Matt. xiv. 17; St. Mark vi. 38;
   St. Luke ix. 13.

   [3224] The expression in St. Mark vi. 35 is literally, a late hour,' ra
   poll.

   [3225] Comp. Jos. Ant. xvi. 6. 2.

   [3226] Orach Chajim 261.

   [3227] St. Mark vi. 38.

   [3228] St. John vi. 9.

   [3229] Sotah. ii. 1.

   [3230] Babha. B. 740 b.

   [3231] {hebrew} Beza 16 a.

   [3232] Ber. 40 a, near the middle.

   [3233] Comp. Herzfeld, Handelsgesch. pp. 305, 306. In my view he has
   established the meaning of this name as against Lewysohn, Zool. d.
   Talm. pp. 255, 256, and Levy, Neuhebr. Wörterb. ii. 192 a.

   [3234] St. John xxi. 9, 10, 13.

   [3235] St. Matt. xiv. 19.

   [3236] St. Mark vi. 39.

   [3237] St. John vi. 10 .

   [3238] sumpsia St. Mark vi. 39.

   [3239] klisas, St. Luke ix. 14.

   [3240] St. Mark vi. 40.

   [3241] The literal rendering of prasi is garden-bed.' In Mark vi. 40,
   prasia prasia, garden-beds, garden-beds.' In the A. V. in ranks.'

   [3242] Ber.46 a.

   [3243] The expression is different from that used by the Synoptists;
   but in St. Matt. xv. 36, and in St. Mark viii. 6, the term is also that
   of thanksgiving, not blessing (echaristo, not elogo).

   [3244] St. John vi. 48-58.

   [3245] Rosh haSh 29 b.

   [3246] Sot. vii. 1.

   [3247] Jer. Sot. p. 21 b.

   [3248] Ber. 44 a.

   [3249] Not an Egyptian basket, as even Jost translates in his edition
   of the Mishnah. The word is derived from {hebrew} (Metser), wicker or
   willow.

   [3250] Comp. Sotah. ii. 1.

   [3251] See the meaning of that expression in the previous chapter.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XXX.
THE NIGHT OF MIRACLES ON THE LAKE OF GENNESARET

   (St. Matt. xiv. 22-36; St. John 15-21.)

   THE last question of the Baptist, spoken in public, had been: Art Thou
   the Coming One, or look we for another?' It had, in part, been
   answered, as the murmur had passed through the ranks: This One is truly
   the Prophet, the Coming One!' So, then, they had no longer to wait, nor
   to look for another! And this Prophet' was Israel's long expected
   Messiah. What this would imply to the people, in the intensity and
   longing of the great hope which, for centuries, nay, far beyond the
   time of Ezra, had swayed their hearts, it is impossible fully to
   conceive. Here, then, was the Great Reality at last before them. He, on
   Whose teaching they had hung entranced, was the Prophet,' nay, more,
   the Coming One:' He Who was coming all those many centuries, and yet
   had not come till now. Then, also, was He more than a Prophet - a King:
   Israel's King, the King of the world. An irresistible impulse seized
   the people. They would proclaim Him King, then and there; and as they
   knew, probably from previous utterances, perhaps when similar movements
   had to be checked, that He would resist, they would constrain Him to
   declare Himself, or at least to be proclaimed by them. Can we wonder at
   this; or that thoughts of a Messianic worldly kingdom should have
   filled, moved, and influenced to discipleship a Judas; or that, with
   such a representative of their own thoughts among the disciples, the
   rising waves of popular excitement should have swollen into the mighty
   billows?

   Jesus therefore, perceiving that they were about to come, and to take
   Him by force, that they might make Him King, [3252] withdrew again into
   the mountain, Himself alone,' or, as it might be rendered, though not
   quite in the modern usage of the expression, became an anchorite again
   . . . Himself alone.' [3253] This is another of those sublime
   contrasts, which render it well-nigh inconceivable to regard this
   history otherwise than as true and Divine. Yet another is the manner in
   which He stilled the multitude, and the purpose for which He became the
   lonely Anchorite on the mountain-top. He withdrew to pray; and He
   stilled the people, and sent them, no doubt solemnised, to their homes,
   by telling them that He withdrew to pray. And He did pray till far on,
   when the (second) evening had come,' [3254] and the first stars shone
   out in the deep blue sky over the Lake of Galilee, with the far lights
   twinkling and trembling on the other side. And yet another sublime
   contrast - as He constrained the disciples to enter the ship, and that
   ship, which bore those who had been sharers in the miracle, could not
   make way against storm and waves, and was at last driven out of its
   course. And yet another contrast - as He walked on the storm-tossed
   waves and subdued them. And yet another, and another - for is not all
   this history one sublime contrast to the seen and the thought of by
   men, but withal most true and Divine in the sublimeness of these
   contrasts?

   For whom and for what He prayed, alone on that mountain, we dare not,
   even in deepest reverence, inquire. Yet we think, in connection with
   it, of the Passover, the Manna, the Wilderness, the Lost Sheep, the
   Holy Supper, the Bread which is His Flesh, and the remnant in the
   Baskets to be carried to those afar off, and then also of the attempt
   to make Him a King, in all its spiritual unreality, ending in His View
   with the betrayal, the denial, and the cry: We have no King but Cæsar.'
   And as He prayed, the faithful stars in the heavens shone out. But
   there on the Lake, where the bark which bore His disciples made for the
   other shore, a great wind' contrary to them' was rising. And still He
   was alone on the land,' but looking out into the evening after them, as
   the ship was in the midst of the sea,' and they toiling and distressed
   in rowing.'

   Thus far, to the utmost verge of their need, but not farther. The Lake
   is altogether about forty furlongs or stadia (about six miles) wide,
   and they had as yet reached little more than half the distance
   (twenty-five or thirty furlongs). Already it was the fourth watch of
   the night.' There was some difference of opinion among the Jews,
   whether the night should be divided into three, or (as among the
   Romans) into four watches. The latter (which would count the night at
   twelve instead of nine hours) was adopted by many. [3255] In any case
   it would be what might be termed the morning-watch, [3256] when the
   well-known Form seemed to be passing them, walking upon the sea.' There
   can, at least, be no question that such was the impression, not only of
   one or another, but that all saw Him. Nor yet can there be here
   question of any natural explanation. Once more the truth of the event
   must be either absolutely admitted, or absolutely rejected. [3257] The
   difficulties of the latter hypothesis, which truly cuts the knot, would
   be very formidable. Not only would the origination of this narrative,
   as given by two of the Synoptists and by St. John, be utterly
   unaccountable - neither meeting Jewish expectancy, nor yet supposed Old
   Testament precedent - but, if legend it be, it seems purposeless and
   irrational. Moreover, there is this noticeable about it, as about so
   many of the records of the miraculous in the New Testament, that the
   writers by no means disguise from themselves or their readers the
   obvious difficulties involved. In the present instance they tell us,
   that they regarded His Form moving on the water as a spirit,' and cried
   out for fear; and again, that the impression produced by the whole
   scene, even on them that had witnessed the miracle of the previous
   evening, was one of overwhelming astonishment. This walking on the
   water, then, was even to them within the domain of the truly
   miraculous, and it affected their minds equally, perhaps even more than
   ours, from the fact that in their view so much, which to us seems
   miraculous, lay within the sphere of what might be expected in the
   course of such a history.

   On the other hand, this miracle stands not isolated, but forms one of a
   series of similar manifestations. It is closely connected both with
   what had passed on the previous evening, and what was to follow; it is
   told with a minuteness of detail, and with such marked absence of any
   attempt at gloss, adornment, apology, or self-glorification, as to give
   the narrative (considered simply as such) the stamp of truth; while,
   lastly, it contains much that lifts the story from the merely
   miraculous into the domain of the sublime and deeply spiritual. As
   regards what may be termed its credibility, this at least may again be
   stated, that this and similar instances of dominion over the creature,'
   are not beyond the range of what God had originally assigned to man,
   when He made him a little lower than the angels, and crowned him with
   glory and honour, made him to have dominion over the works of His
   Hands, and all things were put under his feet. [3258] Indeed, this
   dominion over the sea' seems to exhibit the Divinely human rather than
   the humanly Divine aspect of His Person, [3259] if such distinction may
   be lawfully made. Of the physical possibility of such a miracle - not
   to speak of the contradiction in terms which this implies - no
   explanation can be attempted, if it were only on the ground that we are
   utterly ignorant of the conditions under which it took place.

   This much, however, deserves special notice, that there is one marked
   point of difference between the account of this miracle and what will
   be found a general characteristic in legendary narratives. In the
   latter, the miraculous, however extraordinary, is the expected; it
   creates no surprise, and it is never mistaken for something that might
   have occurred in the ordinary course of events. For, it is
   characteristic of the mythical that the miraculous is not only
   introduced in the most realistic manner, but forms the essential
   element in the conception of things. This is the very raison d'être of
   the myth or legend, when it attaches itself to the real and
   historically true. Now the opposite is the case in the present
   narrative. Had it been mythical or legendary, we should have expected
   that the disciples would have been described as immediately recognising
   the Master as He walked on the sea, and worshipping Him. Instead of
   this, they are troubled' and afraid.' They supposed it was an
   apparition,' [3260] (this in accordance with popular Jewish notions),
   and cried out for fear.' Even afterwards, when they had received Him
   into the ship, they were sore amazed in themselves,' and understood
   not,' while those in the ship (in contradistinction to the disciples),
   burst forth into an act of worship. This much then is evident, that the
   disciples expected not the miraculous; that they were unprepared for
   it; that they had explained it on what to them seemed natural grounds;
   and that, even when convinced of its reality, the impression of wonder,
   which it made, was of the deepest. And this also follows is a
   corollary, that, when they recorded it, it was not in ignorance that
   they were writing that which sounded strangest, and which would affect
   those who should read it with even much greater wonderment - we had
   almost written, unbelief - than those who themselves had witnessed it.

   Nor let it be forgotten, that what had just been remarked about this
   narrative holds equally true in regard to other miracles recorded in
   the New Testament. Thus, even so fundamental an article of the faith as
   the resurrection of Christ is described as having come upon the
   disciples themselves as a surprise - not only wholly unexpected, but so
   incredible, that it required repeated and indisputable evidence to
   command their acknowledgment. And nothing can be more plain, than that
   St. Paul himself was not only aware of the general resistance which the
   announcement of such an event would raise, [3261] but that he felt to
   the full the difficulties of what he so firmly believed, [3262] and
   made the foundation of all his preaching. [3263] Indeed, the elaborate
   exposition of the historical grounds, on which he had arrived at the
   conviction of reality, [3264] affords an insight into the mental
   difficulties which it must at first have presented to him. And a
   similar inference may be drawn from the reference of St. Peter to the
   difficulties connected with the Biblical predictions about the end of
   the world. [3265] [3266]

   It is not necessary to pursue this subject further. Its bearing on the
   miracle of Christ's walking on the Sea of Galilee will be sufficiently
   manifest. Yet other confirmatory evidence may be gathered from a closer
   study of the details of the narrative. When Jesus constrained the
   disciples to enter into the boat, and to go before Him unto the other
   side,' [3267] they must have thought, that His purpose was to join them
   by land, since there was no other boat there, save that in which they
   crossed the Lake. [3268] And possibly such had been his intention, till
   He saw their difficulty, if not danger, from the contrary wind. [3269]
   This must have determined Him to come to their help. And so this
   miracle also was not a mere display of power, but, being caused by
   their need, had a moral object. And when it is asked, how from the
   mountain-height by the Lake He could have seen at night where the ship
   was labouring so far on the Lake, [3270] it must surely have been
   forgotten that the scene is laid quite shortly before the Passover (the
   15th of Nisan), when, of course, the moon would shine on an unclouded
   sky, all the more brightly on a windy spring-night, and light up the
   waters far across.

   We can almost picture to ourselves the weird scene. The Christ is on
   that hill-top in solitary converse with His Father - praying after that
   miraculous breaking of bread: fully realising all that it implied to
   Him of self-surrender, of suffering, and of giving Himself as the Food
   of the World, and all that it implied to us of blessing and
   nourishment; praying also - with that scene fresh on His mind, of their
   seeking to make Him, even by force, their King - that the carnal might
   become spiritual reality (as in symbol it would be with the Breaking of
   Bread). Then, as He rises from His knees, knowing that, alas, it could
   not and would not be so to the many, He looks out over the Lake after
   that little company, which embodied and represented all there yet was
   of His Church, all that would really feed on the Bread from Heaven, and
   own Him their true King. Without presumption, we may venture to say,
   that there must have been indescribable sorrow and longing in His
   Heart, as His gaze was bent across the track which the little boat
   would follow. As we view it, it seems all symbolical: the night, the
   moonlight, the little boat, the contrary wind, and then also the lonely
   Saviour after prayer looking across to where the boatmen vainly labour
   to gain the other shore. As in the clear moonlight just that piece of
   water stands out, almost like burnished silver, with all else in
   shadows around, the sail-less mast is now rocking to and fro, without
   moving forward. They are in difficulty, in danger: and the Saviour
   cannot pursue His journey on foot by land; He must come to their help,
   though it be across the water. It is needful, and therefore it shall be
   upon the water; and so the storm and unsuccessful toil shall not
   prevent their reaching the shore, but shall also be to them for
   teaching concerning Him and His great power, and concerning His great
   deliverance; such teaching as, in another aspect of it, had been given
   them in symbol in the miraculous supply of food, with all that it
   implied (and not to them only, but to us also) of precious comfort and
   assurance, and as will for ever keep the Church from being overwhelmed
   by fear in the stormy night on the Lake of Galilee, when the labour of
   our oars cannot make way for us.

   And they also who were in the boat must have been agitated by peculiar
   feelings. Against their will they had been constrained' by the Lord to
   embark and quit the scene; just as the multitude, under the influence
   of the great miracle, were surrounding their Master, with violent
   insistence to proclaim him the Messianic King of Israel. Not only a
   Judas Iscariot, but all of them, must have been under the strongest
   excitement: first of the great miracle, and then of the popular
   movement. It was the crisis in the history of the Messiah and of His
   Kingdom. Can we wonder, that, when the Lord in very mercy bade them
   quit a scene which could only have misled them, they were reluctant,
   nay, that it almost needed violence of His part? And yet - the more we
   consider it - was it not most truly needful for them, that they should
   leave? But, on the other hand, in this respect also, does there seem a
   need be' for His walking upon the sea, that they might learn not only
   His Almighty Power, and (symbolically) that He ruled the rising waves;
   but that, in their disappointment at His not being a King, they might
   learn that He was a King - only in a far higher, truer sense than the
   excited multitude would have proclaimed Him.

   Thus we can imagine the feelings with which they had pushed the boat
   from the shore, and then eagerly looked back to descry what passed
   there. But soon the shadows of night were enwrapping all objects at a
   distance, and only the bright moon overhead shone on the track behind
   and before. And now the breeze from the other side of the Lake, of
   which they may have been unaware when they embarked on the eastern
   shore, had freshened into violent, contrary wind. All energies must
   have been engaged to keep the boat's head towards the shore. [3271]
   Even so it seemed as if they could make no progress, when all at once,
   in the track that lay behind them, a Figure appeared. As it passed
   onwards over the water, seemingly upborne by the waves as they rose,
   not disappearing as they fell, but carried on as they rolled, the
   silvery moon laid upon the trembling waters the shadows of that Form as
   it moved, long and dark, on their track. St. John uses an expression,
   [3272] which shows us in the pale light, those in the boat, intently,
   fixedly, fearfully, gazing at the Apparition as It neared still closer
   and closer. We must remember their previous excitement, as also the
   presence, and, no doubt, the superstitious suggestions of the boatman,
   when we think how they cried out for fear, and deemed It an Apparition.
   And He would have passed by them,' [3273] as He so often does in our
   case - bringing them, indeed, deliverance, pointing and smoothing their
   way, but not giving them His known Presence, if they had not cried out.
   But their fear, which made them almost hesitate to receive Him into the
   boat, [3274] even though the outcome of error and superstition, brought
   His ready sympathy and comfort, in language which has so often, and in
   all ages, converted foolish fears of misapprehension into gladsome,
   thankful assurance: It is I, be not afraid!'


   And they were no longer afraid, though truly His walking upon the
   waters might seem more awesome than any apparition.' The storm in their
   hearts, like that on the Lake, was commanded by His Presence. We must
   still bear in mind their former excitement, now greatly intensified by
   what they had just witnessed, in order to understand the request of
   Peter: Lord, if it be Thou, bid me come to Thee on the water.' They are
   the words of a man, whom the excitement of the moment has carried
   beyond all reflection. And yet this combination of doubt (if it be
   Thou'), with presumption (bid me come on the water'), is peculiarly
   characteristic of Peter. He is the Apostle of Hope - and hope is a
   combination of doubt and presumption, but also their transformation.
   With reverence be it said, Christ could not have left the request
   ungranted, even though it was the outcome of yet unreconciled and
   untransformed doubt and presumption. He would not have done so, or
   doubt would have remained doubt untransformed; and He could not have
   done so, without also correcting it, or presumption would have remained
   presumption untransformed, which is only upward growth, without deeper
   rooting in inward spiritual experience. And so He bade him come upon
   the water, [3275] to transform his doubt, but left him, unassured from
   without, to his own feelings as he saw the wind, [3276] to transform
   his presumption; while by stretching out His Hand to save him from
   sinking, and by the words of correction which He spake, He did actually
   so point to their transformation in that hope, of which St. Peter is
   the special representative, and the preacher in the Church.

   And presently, as they two came into the boat, [3277] the wind ceased,
   and immediately the ship was at the land. But they that were in the
   boat' - apparently in contradistinction to the disciples, [3278] though
   the latter must have stood around in sympathetic reverence - worshipped
   Him, saying, Of a truth Thou art the Son of God.' The first full public
   confession this of the fact, and made not by the disciples, but by
   others. With the disciples it would have meant something far deeper.
   But as from the lips of these men it seems, like the echo of what had
   passed between them on that memorable passage across the Lake. They
   also must have mingled in the conversation, as the boat had pushed off
   from the shore on the previous evening, when they spake of the miracle
   of the feeding, and then of the popular attempt to proclaim Him
   Messianic King, of which they knew not yet the final issue, since they
   had been constrained to get into the boat,' while the Master remained
   behind. They would speak of all that He was and had done, and how the
   very devils had proclaimed Him to be the Son of God,' on that other
   shore, close by where the miracle of feeding had taken place. Perhaps,
   having been somewhat driven out of their course, they may have passed
   close to the very spot, and, as they pointed to it recalled the
   incident. And this designation of Son of God,' with the worship which
   followed, would come much more readily, because with much more
   superficial meaning, to the boatmen than to the disciples. But in them,
   also, the thought was striking deep root; and presently, by the Mount
   of Transfiguration, would it be spoken in the name of all by Peter, not
   as demon- nor as man-taught, but as taught of Christ's Father Who is in
   Heaven.

   Yet another question suggests itself. The events of the night are not
   recorded by St. Luke - perhaps because they did not come within his
   general view-plan of that Life; perhaps from reverence, because neither
   he, nor his teacher St. Paul, were within that inner circle, with which
   the events of that night were connected rather in the way of reproof
   than otherwise. At any rate, even negative criticism cannot
   legitimately draw any adverse inference from it, in view of its record
   not only by two of the Synoptists, but in the Fourth Gospel. St. Mark
   also does not mention the incident concerning St. Peter; and this we
   can readily understand from his connection with that Apostle. Of the
   two eyewitnesses, St. John and St. Matthew, the former also is silent
   on that incident. On any view of the authorship of the Fourth Gospel,
   it could not have been from ignorance, either of its occurrence, or
   else of its record by St. Matthew. Was it among those many other things
   which Jesus did,' which were not written by him, since their complete
   chronicle would have rendered a Gospel-sketch impossible? Or did it lie
   outside that special conception of his Gospel, which as regards its
   details, determined the insertion or else the omission of certain
   incidents? Or was there some reason for this omission connected with
   the special relation of John to Peter? And, lastly, why was St. Matthew
   in this instance more detailed than the others, and alone told it with
   such circumstantiality? Was it that it had made such deep impression on
   his own mind; had he somehow any personal connection with it; or did he
   feel, as if this bidding of Peter to come to Christ out of the ship and
   on the water had some close inner analogy with his own call to leave
   the custom-house and follow Christ? Such, and other suggestions which
   may arise can only be put in the form of questions. Their answer awaits
   the morning and the other shore.

   THE END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.


   EXPLANATORY NOTES AND CORRECTIONS FOR THE FIRST VOLUME

   Page 7, note 1: i.e. the mind of the one was settled like men, that of
   the others unsettled as women.

   Page 12, note 2: Diety' = Shekhinah.'

   Page 35, note 3: See Zunz, Gottesd. Vortr. p. 323, note b.

   Page 97, note 1. This, of course, is and inference from the whole
   history and relation there indicated.

   Page 174, note 1a, line 7, read: Hath He said, and shall He not do it?'
   being the quotation from Numb. xxiii. 19, which is intended as an
   answer to the pretension. The rendering of the passage by the learned
   Dr. Schwab is untenable.

   Page 268, note 3: the quotation is taken from the unmutilated and
   sublime citation as given in R. Martini Pugio Fidei, ed. Carpzov. p.
   782. Page 271(k). This is the view of Beer, Leben Abr. p. 88.

   Page 292: for temptations' read temptation.' The ten temptations of
   Abraham are referred to in Ab. P. 3, and enumerated in Ab. de R. N. 33
   and Pirque de R. El. 26. Page 312h . Of course, this is the expression
   of a later Rabbi, but it refers to Pharisaic interpretations.

   Page 358c. So Lightfoot infers from the passage; but as the Rabbi who
   speaks is etymologising and almost punning, the inference should
   perhaps not be pressed.

   Page 384, note 1: In Vayy. R. 30, the expression refers to the
   different condition of Israel after the time described in Hos. iii. 4,
   or in that of Hezekiah, or at the deliverance of Mordecai. In Bemid. R.
   11, the expression is connected with their ingathering of proselytes in
   fulfilment of Gen. xii. 2.

   Page 387, lines 17 and 18. On this subject, however, other opinions are
   also entertained. Comp. Sukk. 5 a.

   Page 443, as to priest guilty of open sin, the details, which I
   refrained from giving, are mentioned in Duschak, Jud. Kultus, p. 270.

   Page 444, note 3. This, of course, in regard to an unlearned priest.
   See discussion in Duschak, u.s. p. 255.

   Page 447(c). Ber. 6 b. Probably this was to many the only ground for
   reward, since the discourse was the Pirqa, or on the Halakah. Ib.(e)
   Taan. 16 a: though the remark refers to the leader ot the devotions on
   fast-days, it is also applied to the preacher by Duschak, p. 285.

   Page 505, note 3, see correction of p. 174, note (u.s.).

   Page 514, note 2: in Taan. 20 a the story of the miracle is cold which
   gave him the name Nicodemus.

   Page 536(g). I refer to the thanksgiving of Nechunyah. See also the
   prayer put into the mouth of Moses, Ber. 32 a. And although such
   prayers as Ber. 16 b, 17 a, are sublime, they are, in my view, not to
   be compared with that of Christ in its fulness and breadth.

   Page 539(c). sanh. 100 b is, of course, not verbatim worded. This would
   be in the second sentence: Possibly on the morrow he will not be, and
   have been found caring for a world which is not his.'

   Page 557b, read in text: the common formula at funerals in Palestine
   was, Weep with him,' &c.

   Page 597, note, line 9 from bottom: for our' their' and for us' read
   them.'

   Page 620, line 4 from bottom, The dress of the wife,' &c., read The
   clothing,' the meaning being that in the alternative between saving the
   life of the ignorant and clothing the wife of the learned (if she had
   no clothes), the latter is of more importance.

   Page 622, margin, delete the second' in .


   Book III

   --------

   THE ASCENT:

   FROM THE RIVER JORDAN TO THE MOUNT OF

   TRANSFIGURATION - continued

     __________________________________________________________________

   [3252] Note here the want of the article: na poisosin atn basila. We
   owe this notice to the Fourth Gospel, and it is in marked inconsistency
   with the theory of its late Ephesian authority.

   [3253] St. John vi. 15.

   [3254] St. Matt. xiv. 23.

   [3255] Ber. 3 b.

   [3256] Probably from 3 to about 6 a.m.

   [3257] Even the beautiful allegory into which Keim would resolve it -
   that the Church in her need knows not, whether her Saviour may not come
   in the last watch of the night - entirely surrenders the whole
   narrative. And why should three Evangelists have invented such a story,
   in order to teach or rather disguise a doctrine, which is otherwise so
   clearly expressed throughout the whole New Testament, as to form one of
   its primary principles? Volkmar (Marcus, p. 372) regards this whole
   history as an allegory of St. Paul's activity among the Gentiles!
   Strange in that case, that it was omitted in the Gospel by St. Luke.
   But the whole of that section of Volkmar's book (beginning at p. 327)
   contains an extra-ordinary congeries, of baseless hypotheses, of which
   it were difficult to say, whether the language is more painfully
   irreverent or the outcome more extravagant.

   [3258] Ps. viii. 5, 6; comp. Hebr. ii. 6-9.

   [3259] On the other hand, the miraculous feeding of the multitude seems
   to exhibit rather the humanly-Divine aspect of His Person.

   [3260] Literally, a phantasma. This word is only used in this narrative
   (St. Matt. xiv. 26 and St. Mark vi. 49.)

   [3261] Acts xxvi. 8.

   [3262] 1 Cor. xv. 12-19.

   [3263] Acts xvii. 31, 32.

   [3264] 1 Cor. xv. 1-8.

   [3265] 2 Pet. iii. 4.

   [3266] The authenticity of the Second Epistle of St. Peter is here
   taken for granted, but the drift of the argument would be the same, to
   whatever authorship it be ascribed.

   [3267] St. Matt. xiv. 22.

   [3268] St. John vi. 22.

   [3269] Weiss (Matthaus-Evang. p. 372) sees a gross contradiction
   between what seems implied as to His original purpose and His walking
   on the sea, and hence rejects the narrative. Such are the assumptions
   of negative criticism. But it seems forgotten that, according to St.
   Matt. xiv. 24, the journey seems at first to have been fairly
   prosperous.

   [3270] Weiss (u. s.) certainly argues on the impossibility of His
   having seen the boat so far out on the Lake.

   [3271] According to St. Matt. xiv. 24, they seem only to have
   encountered the full force of the wind when they were about the middle
   of the Lake. We imagine that soon after they embarked there may have
   been a fresh breeze from the other side of the Lake, which by and by
   rose into a violent contrary wind.

   [3272] St. John, in distinction to the Synoptists, here uses the
   expression theoren (St. John vi. 19), which in the Gospels has the
   distinctive meaning of fixed, earnest, and intent gaze, mostly outward,
   but sometimes also inward, in the sense of earnest and attentive
   consideration. The use of this word as distinguished from merely
   seeing, is so important for the better understanding of the New
   Testament, that every reader should mark it. We accordingly append a
   list of the passages in the Gospels where this word is used: St. Matt.
   xxvii. 55; xxviii. 1; St. Mark iii. 11; v. 15, 38; xii. 41; xv. 40, 47;
   xvi. 4; St. Luke x. 18; xiv. 29; xxi. 6; xxiii. 35, 48; xxiv. 37, 39;
   St. John ii. 23; iv. 19; vi. 2 (Lachm. and Treg.), 19, 40, 62; vii. 3;
   viii. 51; ix. 8; x. 12; xii. 19, 45; xiv. 17, 19; xvi. 10, 16, 17, 19;
   xvii. 24; xx. 6, 12, 14. It will thus be seen, that the expression is
   more frequently used by St. John than in the other Gospels, and it is
   there also that its distinctive meaning is of greatest importance.

   [3273] St. Mark vi. 48.

   [3274] This seems to me implied in the expression, St. John vi. 21:
   Then they were willing to take Him into the ship.' Some negative
   critics have gone so far as to see in this graphic hint a contradiction
   to the statements of the Synoptists. (See  Lücke, Comment. ü. d. Evang.
   Joh. ii. pp. 120-122.).

   [3275] As to the physical possibility of it, we have to refer to our
   former remarks.

   [3276] The word boisterous' must be struck out as an interpolated
   gloss.

   [3277] I cannot see (with Meyer) any variation in the narrative in St.
   John vi. 21. The expression, they were willing to take him into the
   ship,' certainly does not imply that, after, the incident of Peter's
   failure, He did not actually enter the boat.

   [3278] Weiss (p. 373) assures us that this view is impossible;' but on
   no better ground than that no others than ten disciples are mentioned
   in St. Matt. xiv. 22, as if it had been necessary to mention the
   embarkation of the boatmen.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XXXI.
THE CAVILS OF THE PHARISEES CONCERNING PURIFICATION, AND THE TEACHING OF THE
LORD CONCERNING PURITY - THE TRADITIONS CONCERNING HAND-WASHING' AND VOWS.'

   (St. Matt. xv. 1-20; St. Mark vii. 1-23.)

   As we follow the narrative, confirmatory evidence of what had preceded
   springs up at almost every step. It is quite in accordance with the
   abrupt departure of Jesus from Capernaum, and its motives, that when,
   so far from finding rest and privacy at Bethsaida (east of the Jordan),
   a greater multitude than ever had there gathered around Him, which
   would fain have proclaimed Him King, He resolved on immediate return to
   the western shore, with the view of seeking a quieter retreat, even
   though it were in the coasts of Tyre and Sidon.' [3279] According to
   St. Mark, [3280] the Master had directed the disciples to make for the
   other Bethsaida, or Fisherton,' on the western shore of the Lake.
   [3281] Remembering how common the corresponding name is in our own
   country, [3282] and that fishing was the main industry along the shores
   of the Lake, we need not wonder at the existence of more than one
   Beth-Saida, or Fisherton.' [3283] Nor yet does it seem strange, that
   the site should be lost of what, probably, except for the fishing, was
   quite an unimportant place. By the testimony both of Josephus and the
   Rabbis, the shores of Gennesaret were thickly studded with little
   towns, villages, and hamlets, which have all perished without leaving a
   trace, while even of the largest the ruins are few and inconsiderable.
   We would, however, hazard a geographical conjecture. From the fact that
   St. Mark [3284] names Bethsaida, and St. John [3285] Capernaum, as the
   original destination of the boat, we would infer that Bethsaida was the
   fishing quarter of, or rather close to, Capernaum, even as we so often
   find in our own country a Fisherton' adjacent to larger towns. With
   this would agree the circumstance, that no traces of an ancient harbour
   have been discovered at Tell Hûm, the site of Capernaum. [3286]
   Further, it would explain, how Peter and Andrew, who, according to St.
   John, [3287] were of Bethsaida, are described by St. Mark [3288]   as
   having their home in Capernaum. It also deserves notice, that, as
   regards the house of St. Peter, St. Mark, who was so intimately
   connected with him, names Capernaum, while St. John, who was his
   fellow-townsman. names Bethsaida, and that the reverse difference
   obtains between the two Evangelists in regard to the direction of the
   ship. This also suggests, that in a sense - as regarded the fishermen -
   the names were interchangeable, or rather, that Bethsaida was the
   Fisherton' of Capernaum. [3289]

   A superficial reader might object that, in the circumstances, we would
   scarcely have expected Christ and His disciples to have returned at
   once to the immediate neighbourhood of Capernaum, if not to that city
   itself. But a fuller knowledge of the circumstances will not only, as
   so often, convert the supposed difficulty into most important
   confirmatory evidence, but supply some deeply interesting details. The
   apparently trivial notice, that (at least) the concluding part of the
   Discourses, immediately on the return to Capernaum, was spoken by
   Christ in Synagogue,' [3290] [3291] enables us not only to localise
   this address, but to fix the exact succession of events. If this
   Discourse was spoken in Synagogue,' it must have been (as will be
   shown) on the Jewish Sabbath. Reckoning backwards, we arrive at the
   conclusion, that Jesus with His disciples left Capernaum for
   Bethsaida-Julias on a Thursday; that the miraculous feeding of the
   multitude took place on Thursday evening; the passage of the disciples
   to the other side, and the walking of Christ on the sea, as well as the
   failure of Peter's faith, in the night of Thursday to Friday; the
   passage of the people to Capernaum in search of Jesus, [3292] with all
   that followed, on the Friday; and, lastly, the final Discourses of
   Christ on the Saturday in Capernaum and in the Synagogue.

   Two inferences will appear from this chronological arrangement. First,
   when our Lord had retraced His steps from the eastern shore in search
   of rest and retirement, it was so close on the Jewish Sabbath (Friday),
   that He was almost obliged to return to Capernaum to spend the holy day
   there, before undertaking the further journey to the coasts of Tyre and
   Sidon.' And on the Sabbath no actual danger, either from Herod Antipas
   or the Pharisees, need have been apprehended. Thus (as before
   indicated), the sudden return to Capernaum, so far from constituting a
   difficulty, serves as confirmation of the previous narrative. Again, we
   cannot but perceive a peculiar correspondence of dates. Mark here: The
   miraculous breaking of Bread at Bethsaida on a Thursday evening; the
   breaking of Bread at the Last Supper on a Thursday evening; the attempt
   to proclaim Him King, and the betrayal; Peter's bold assertion, and the
   failure of his faith, each in the night from Thursday to Friday; and,
   lastly, Christ's walking on the angry, storm-tossed waves, and
   commanding them, and bringing the boat that bore His disciples safe to
   land, and His victory and triumph over Death and him that had the power
   of Death.

   These, surely, are more than coincidences; and in this respect also may
   this history be regarded as symbolic. As we read it, Christ directed
   the disciples to steer for Bethsaida, the Fisherton' of Capernaum, But,
   apart from the latter suggestion, we gather from the expressions used,
   [3293] that the boat which bore the disciples had drifted out of its
   course - probably owing to the wind - and touched land, not where they
   had intended, but at Gennesaret, where they moored it. There can be no
   question, that by this term is meant the plain of Gennesaret,' the
   richness and beauty of which Josephus [3294] and the Rabbis [3295]
   describe in such glowing language. To this day it bears marks of having
   been the most favoured spot in this favoured region. Travelling
   northwards from Tiberias along the Lake, we follow, for about five or
   six miles, a narrow ledge of land shut in by mountains, when we reach
   the home of the Magdalene, the ancient Magdala (the modern Mejdel).
   Right over against us, on the other side, is Kersa (Gerasa), the scene
   of the great miracle. On leaving Magdala the mountains recede, and form
   an amphitheatric plain, more than a mile wide, and four or five miles
   long. This is the land of Gennesaret' (el Ghuweir). We pass across the
   Valley of Doves,' which intersects it about one mile to the north of
   Magdala, and pursue our journey over the well-watered plain, till,
   after somewhat more than an hour, we reach its northern boundary, a
   little beyond Khân Minyeh. The latter has, in accordance with
   tradition, been regarded by some as representing Bethsaida, [3296] but
   seems both too far from the Lake, and too much south of Capernaum, to
   answer the requirements.

   No sooner had the well-known boat, which bore Jesus and His disciples,
   been run up the gravel-beach in the early morning of that Friday, than
   His Presence must have become known throughout the district, all the
   more that the boatmen would soon spread the story of the miraculous
   occurrences of the preceding evening and night. With Eastern rapidity
   the tidings would pass along, and from all the country around the sick
   were brought on their pallets, if they might but touch the border of
   His garment. Nor could such touch, even though the outcome of an
   imperfect faith, be in vain - for He, Whose garment they sought leave
   to touch, was the God-Man, the Conqueror of Death, the Source and
   Spring of all Life. And so it was where He landed, and all the way up
   to Bethsaida and Capernaum. [3297] [3298]

   In what followed, we can still trace the succession of events, though
   there are considerable difficulties as to their precise order. Thus we
   are expressly told, [3299] that those from the other side' came to
   Capernaum' on the day following' the miraculous feeding, and that one
   of the subsequent Discourses, of which the outline is preserved, was
   delivered in Synagogue.' [3300] As this could only have been done
   either on a Sabbath or Feast-Day (in this instance, the Passover [3301]
   ), it follows, that in any case a day must have intervened between
   their arrival at Capernaum and the Discourse in Synagogue. Again, it is
   almost impossible to believe that it could have been on the Passover
   day (15th Nisan). [3302] For we cannot imagine, that any large number
   would have left their homes and festive preparations on the Eve of the
   Pascha (14th Nisan), not to speak of the circumstance that in Galilee,
   differently from Judæa, all labour, including, of course, that of a
   journey across the Lake, was intermitted on the Eve of the Passover.
   [3303] Similarly, it is almost impossible to believe, that so many
   festive pilgrims would have been assembled till late in the evening
   preceding the 14th Nisan so far from Jerusalem as Bethsaida-Julias,
   since it would have been impossible after that to reach the city and
   Temple in time for the feast. It, therefore, only remains to regard the
   Synagogue-service at which Christ preached as that of an ordinary
   Sabbath, and the arrival of the multitude as having taken place on
   Friday in the forenoon.

   Again, from the place which the narrative occupies in the Gospels of
   St. Matthew and St. Mark, as well as from certain internal evidence, it
   seems difficult to doubt, that the reproof of the Pharisees and Scribes
   on the subject of the unwashed hands,' [3304] was not administered
   immediately after the miraculous feeding and the night of miracles. We
   cannot, however, feel equally sure, which of the two preceded the
   other: the Discourse in Capernaum, [3305] or the Reproof of the
   Pharisees. [3306] Several reasons have determined us to regard the
   Reproof as having preceded the Discourse. Without entering on a
   detailed discussion, the simple reading of the two sections will lead
   to the instinctive conclusion, that such a Discourse could not have
   been followed by such cavil and such Reproof, while it seems in the
   right order of things, that the Reproof which led to the offence' of
   the Pharisees, and apparently the withdrawal of some in the outer
   circle of discipleship, [3307] should have been followed by the
   positive teaching of the Discourse, which in turn resulted in the going
   back of many who had been in the inner circle of disciples. [3308]

   In these circumstances, we venture to suggest the following as the
   succession of events. Early on the Friday morning the boat which bore
   Jesus and His disciples grated on the sandy beach of the plain of
   Gennesaret. As the tidings spread of His arrival and of the miracles
   which had so lately been witnessed, the people from the neighbouring
   villages and towns flocked around Him, and brought their sick for the
   healing touch. So the greater part of the forenoon passed. Meantime,
   while they moved, as the concourse of the people by the way would
   allow, the first tidings of all this must have reached the neighbouring
   Capernaum. This brought immediately on the scene those Pharisees and
   Scribes who had come from Jerusalem' on purpose to watch, and, if
   possible, to compass the destruction on Jesus. As we conceive it, they
   met the Lord and His disciples on their way to Capernaum. Possibly they
   overtook them, as they rested by the way, and the disciples, or some of
   them, were partaking of some food - perhaps, some of the consecrated
   Bread of the previous evening. The Reproof of Christ would be
   administered there; then the Lord would, not only for their teaching,
   but for the purposes immediately to be indicated, turn to the
   multitude; [3309] next would follow the remark of the disciples and the
   reply of the Lord, spoken, probably, when they were again on the way;
   [3310] and, lastly, the final explanation of Christ, after they had
   entered the house at Capernaum. [3311] In all probability a part of
   what is recorded in St. John vi. 24, &c. occurred also about the same
   time; the rest on the Sabbath which followed.

   Although the cavil of the Jerusalem Scribes may have been occasioned by
   seeing some of the disciples eating without first having washed their
   hands, we cannot banish the impression that it reflected on the
   miraculously provided meal of the previous evening, when thousands had
   sat down to food without the previous observance of the Rabbinic
   ordinance. Neither in that case, nor in the present, had the Master
   interposed. He was, therefore, guilty of participation in their
   offence. So this was all which these Pharisees and Scribes could see in
   the miracle of Christ's feeding the Multitude - that it had not been
   done according to Law! Most strange as it may seem, yet in the past
   history of the Church, and, perhaps, sometimes also in the present,
   this has been the only thing which some men have seen in the miraculous
   working of the Christ! Perhaps we should not wonder that the miracle
   itself made no deeper impression, since even the disciples understood
   not' (by reasoning) about the loaves' - however they may have accounted
   for it in a manner which might seem to them reasonable. But, in another
   aspect, the objection of the Scribes was not a mere cavil. In truth, it
   represented one of the great charges which the Pharisees brought
   against Jesus, and which determined them to seek His destruction.

   It has already been shown, that they accounted for the miracles of
   Christ as wrought by the power of Satan, whose special representative -
   almost incarnation - they declared Jesus to be. This would not only
   turn the evidential force of these signs into an argument against
   Christ, but vindicate the resistance of the Pharisees to His claims.
   The second charge against Jesus was, that He was not of God;' that He
   was a sinner.' [3312] If this could be established, it would, of
   course, prove that He was not the Messiah, but a deceiver who misled
   the people, and whom it was the duty of the Sanhedrin to unmask and
   arrest. The way in which they attempted to establish this, perhaps
   persuaded themselves that it was so, was by proving that He sanctioned
   in others, and Himself committed, breaches of the traditional law;
   which, according to their fundamental principles, involved heavier
   guilt than sins against the revealed Law of Moses. The third and last
   charge against Jesus, which finally decided the action of the Council,
   could only be fully made at the close of His career. It might be
   formulated so as to meet the views of either the Pharisees or
   Sadducees. To the former it might be presented as a blasphemous claim
   to equality with God - the Very Son of the Living God. To the Sadducees
   it would appear as a movement on the part of a most dangerous
   enthusiast - if honest and self-deceived, all the more dangerous; one
   of those pseudo-Messiahs who led away the ignorant, superstitious, and
   excitable people; and which, if unchecked, would result in persecutions
   and terrible vengeance by the Romans, and in loss of the last remnants
   of their national independence. To each of these three charges, of
   which we are now watching the opening or development, there was (from
   the then standpoint) only one answer: Faith in His Person. And in our
   time, also, this is the final answer to all difficulties and
   objections. To this faith Jesus was now leading His disciples, till,
   fully realised in the great confession of Peter, it became, and has
   ever since proved, the Rock on which that Church is built, against
   which the very gates of Hades cannot prevail.

   It was in support of the second of these charges, that the Scribes now
   blamed the Master for allowing His disciples to eat without having
   previously washed, or, as St. Mark - indicating, as we shall see, in
   the word the origin of the custom - expresses it with graphic accuracy:
   with common hands.' [3313] Once more we have to mark, how minutely
   conversant the Gospel narratives are with Jewish Law and practice. This
   will best appear from a brief account of this tradition of the elders,'
   [3314] the more needful that important differences prevail even among
   learned Jewish authorities, due probably to the circumstance that the
   brief Mishnic Tractate devoted to the subject [3315] has no Gemara
   attached to it, and also largely treats of other matters. At the outset
   we have this confirmation of the Gospel language, that this practice is
   expressly admitted to have been, not a Law of Moses, but a tradition of
   the elders.' [3316] Still, and perhaps on this very account, it was so
   strictly enjoined, that to neglect it was like being guilty of gross
   carnal defilement. Its omission would lead to temporal destruction,
   [3317] or, at least, to poverty. [3318] Bread eaten with unwashen hands
   was as if it had been filth. [3319] Indeed, a Rabbi who had held this
   command in contempt was actually buried in excommunication. [3320]
   Thus, from their point of view, the charge of the Scribes against the
   disciples, so far from being exaggerated, is most moderately worded by
   the Evangelists. In fact, although at one time it had only been one of
   the marks of a Pharisee, yet at a later period to wash before eating
   was regarded as affording the ready means of recognising a Jew. [3321]
   [3322]

   It is somewhat more difficult to account for the origin of the
   ordinance. So far as indicated, it seems to have been first enjoined in
   order to ensure that sacred offerings should not be eaten in
   defilement. When once it became an ordinance of the elders, this was,
   of course, regarded as sufficient ground for obedience. [3323]
   Presently, Scriptural support was sought for it. Some based it on the
   original ordinance of purification in Lev. xv. 11; [3324] while others
   saw in the words [3325] Sanctify yourselves,' the command to wash
   before meat; in the command, Be ye holy,' that of washing after meat;
   while the final clause, for I am the Lord your God,' was regarded as
   enjoining the grace at meat.' [3326] For, soon it was not merely a
   washing before, but also after meals. The former alone was, however,
   regarded as a commandment' (Mitsvah), the other only as a duty'
   (Chobhah), which some, indeed, explained on sanitary grounds, as there
   might be left about the hands what might prove injurious to the eyes.
   [3327] [3328] Accordingly, soldiers might, in the urgency of
   campaigning, neglect the washing before, but they ought to be careful
   about that after meat. By-and-by, the more rigorous actually washed
   between the courses, although this was declared to be purely voluntary.
   [3329] This washing before meals is regarded by some as referred to in
   Talmudic writings by the expression the first waters' (Mayim rishonim),
   while what is called the second' (sheniyim), or the other,' later,' or
   afterwaters' (Mayim acharonim), is supposed to represent the washing
   after meals.

   But there is another and more important aspect of the expression, which
   leads us to describe the rite itself. The distinctive designation for
   it is Netilath Yadayim, [3330] literally, the lifting of the hands;
   while for the washing before meat the term Meshi or Mesha [3331] is
   also used, which literally means to rub.' Both these terms point to the
   manner of the rite. The first question here was, whether second tithe,'
   prepared first-fruits (Terumah), or even common food (Chullin), or
   else, holy' i.e. sacrificial food, was to be partaken of. In the latter
   case a complete immersion of the hands (baptism,' Tebhilath Yadayim),
   and not merely a Netilath, or uplifting,' was prescribed. [3332] The
   latter was really an affusion. As the purifications were so frequent,
   and care had to be taken that the water had not been used for other
   purposes, or something fallen into it that might discolour or defile
   it, large vessels or jars were generally kept for the purpose. These
   might be of any material, although stone is specially mentioned. [3333]
   It was the practice to draw water out of these with what was called a
   natla, antila, or antelaya, [3334] very often of glass, which must hold
   (at least) a quarter of a log [3335] - a measure equal to one and a
   half egg-shells.' For, no less quantity than this might be used for
   affusion. The water was poured on both hands, which must be free of
   anything covering them, such as gravel, mortar, &c. The hands were
   lifted up, so as to make the water run to the wrist, in order to ensure
   that the whole hand was washed, and that the water polluted by the hand
   did not again run down the fingers. Similarly, each hand was rubbed
   with the other (the first), provided the hand that rubbed had been
   affused: otherwise, the rubbing might be done against the head, or even
   against a wall. But there was one point on which special stress was
   laid. In the first affusion,' which was all that originally was
   required when the hands were Levitically defiled,' the water had to run
   down to the wrist [3336] ({hebrew}, or {hebrew} - lappereq, or ad
   happereq). If the water remained short of the wrist (chuts lappereq),
   the hands were not clean. [3337] Accordingly, the words of St. Mark
   [3338] can only mean that the Pharisees eat not except they wash their
   hands to the wrist.' [3339]

   Allusion has already been made to what are called the first' and the
   second,' or other' waters.' But, in their original meaning, these terms
   referred to something else than washing before and after meals. The
   hands were deemed capable of contracting Levitical defilement, which,
   in certain cases, might even render the whole body unclean.' If the
   hands were defiled,' two affusions were required: the first, or first
   waters' (mayim rishonim) to remove the defilement, and the second,' or
   after waters' (mayim sheniyim or acharonim) to wash away the waters
   that had contracted the defilement of the hands. Accordingly, on the
   affusion of the first waters the hands were elevated, and the water
   made to run down at the wrist, while at the second waters the hands
   were depressed, so that the water might run off by the finger points
   and tips. By-and-by, it became the practice to have two affusions,
   whenever Terumah (prepared first-fruits) was to be eaten, and at last
   even when ordinary food (Chullin) was partaken of. The modern Jews have
   three affusions, and accompany the rite with a special benediction.

   This idea of the defilement of the hands' received a very curious
   application. According to one of the eighteen decrees, which, as we
   shall presently show, date before the time of Christ, the Roll of the
   Pentateuch in the Temple defiled all kinds of meat that touched it. The
   alleged reason for this decree was, that the priests were wont to keep
   the Terumah (preserved first-fruits) close to the Roll of the Law, on
   which account the latter was injured by mice. The Rabbinic ordinance
   was intended to avert this danger. [3340] [3341] To increase this
   precaution, it was next laid down as a principle, that all that renders
   the Terumah unfit, also defiles the hands. [3342] Hence, the Holy
   Scriptures defiled not only the food but the hands that touched them,
   and this not merely in the Temple, but anywhere, while it was also
   explained that the Holy Scriptures included the whole of the inspired
   writings - the Law, Prophets, and Hagiographa. This gave rise to
   interesting discussions, whether the Song of Solomon, Ecclesiastes, or
   Esther were to be regarded as defiling the hands,' that is, as part of
   the Canon. The ultimate decision was in favour of these books: all the
   holy writings defile the hands; the Song of Songs and Ecclesiastes
   defile the hands.' [3343] Nay, so far were sequences carried, that even
   a small portion of the Scriptures was declared to defile the hands if
   it contained eighty-five letters, because the smallest section'
   (Parashah) in the Law [3344] consisted of exactly that number. Even the
   Phylacteries, because they contained portions of the sacred text, the
   very leather straps by which they were bound to the head and arm - nay,
   the blank margins around the text of the Scriptures, or at the
   beginning and end of sections, were declared to defile the hands.
   [3345] [3346]

   From this exposition it will be understood what importance the Scribes
   attached to the rite which the disciples had neglected. Yet at a later
   period Pharisaism, with characteristic ingenuity, found a way of
   evading even this obligation, by laying down what we would call the
   Popish (or semi-Popish) principle of intention.' It was ruled, that if
   anyone had performed the rite of handwashing in the morning, with
   intention' that it should apply to the meals of the whole day, this was
   (with certain precautions) valid. [3347] But at the time of which we
   write the original ordinance was quite new. This touches one of the
   most important, but also most intricate questions in the history of
   Jewish dogmas. Jewish tradition traced, indeed, the command of washing
   the hands before eating - at least of sacrificial offerings - to
   Solomon, [3348] in acknowledgment of which the voice from heaven'
   (Bath-Qol) had been heard to utter Prov. xxiii. 15, and xxvii. 11. But
   the earliest trace of this custom occurs in a portion of the Sibylline
   Books, which dates from about 160 b.c., [3349] where we find an
   allusion to the practice of continually washing the hands, in
   connection with prayer and thanksgiving. [3350] It was reserved for
   Hillel and Shammai, the two great rival teachers and heroes of Jewish
   traditionalism, immediately before Christ, to fix the Rabbinic
   ordinance about the washing of hands (Netilath Yadayim), as previously
   described. This was one of the few points on which they were agreed,
   [3351] and hence emphatically a tradition of the Elders,' since these
   two teachers bear, in Rabbinic writings, each the designation of the
   Elder.' [3352] Then followed a period of developing traditionalism, and
   hatred of all that was Gentile. The tradition of the Elders was not yet
   so established as to command absolute and universal obedience, while
   the disputes of Hillel and Shammai, who seemed almost on principle to
   have taken divergent views on every question, must have disturbed the
   minds of many. We have an account of a stormy meeting between the two
   Schools, attended even with bloodshed. The story is so confusedly, and
   so differently told in the Jerusalem [3353] and in the Babylon Talmud,
   [3354] that it is difficult to form a clear view of what really
   occurred. Thus much, however, appears - that the Shammaites had a
   majority of votes, and that eighteen decrees' {hebrew} were passed in
   which the two Schools agreed, while on other eighteen questions
   (perhaps a round number) the Shammaites carried their views by a
   majority, and yet other eighteen remained undecided. Each of the
   Schools spoke of that day according to its party-results. The
   Shammaites (such as Rabbi Eliezer) extolled it as that on which the
   measure of the Law had been filled up to the full, [3355] while the
   Hillelites (like Rabbi Joshua) deplored, that on that day water had
   been poured into a vessel full of oil, by which some of the more
   precious fluid had been split. In general, the tendency of these
   eighteen decrees was of the most violently anti-Gentile, intolerant,
   and exclusive character. Yet such value was attached to them, that,
   while any other decree of the sages might be altered by a more grave,
   learned, and authoritative assembly, these eighteen decrees might not
   under any circumstances, be modified. [3356] But, besides these
   eighteen decrees, the two Schools on that day [3357] agreed in solemnly
   re-enacting the decrees about the Book (the copy of the Law), and the
   hands' ({hebrew}). The Babylon Talmud [3358] notes that the latter
   decree, though first made by Hillel and Shammai, the Elders,' was not
   universally carried out until re-enacted by their colleges. It is
   important to notice, that this Decree' dates from the time just before,
   and was finally carried into force in the very days of Christ. This
   fully accounts for the zeal which the Scribes displayed - and explains
   the extreme minuteness of details' with which St. Mark calls attention'
   to this Pharisaic practice. [3359] For, it was an express Rabbinic
   principle [3360] that, if an ordinance had been only recently
   re-enacted ({hebrew}), it might not be called in question or
   invalidated ({hebrew}).' [3361] Thus it will be seen, that the language
   employed by the Evangelist affords most valuable indirect confirmation
   of the trustworthiness of his Gospel, as not only showing intimate
   familiarity with the minutiæ of Jewish tradition,' but giving
   prominence to what was then a present controversy - and all this the
   more, that it needs intimate knowledge of that Law even fully to
   understand the language of the Evangelist.

   After this full exposition, it can only be necessary to refer in
   briefest manner to those other observances which orthodox Judaism had
   received to hold.' They connect themselves with those eighteen decrees,
   intended to separate the Jew from all contact with Gentiles. Any
   contact with a heathen, even the touch of his dress, might involve such
   defilement, that on coming from the market the orthodox Jew would have
   to immerse. Only those who know the complicated arrangements about the
   defilements of vessels that were in any part, however small, hollow, as
   these are described in the Mishnah (Tractate Kelim), can form an
   adequate idea of the painful minuteness with which every little detail
   is treated. Earthen vessels that had contracted impurity were to be
   broken; those of wood, horn, glass, or brass immersed; while, if
   vessels were bought of Gentiles, they were (as the case might be) to be
   immersed, put into boiling water, purged with fire, or at least
   polished. [3362]

   Let us now try to realise the attitude of Christ in regard to these
   ordinances about purification, and seek to understand the reason of His
   bearing. That, in replying to the charge of the Scribes against His
   disciples, He neither vindicated their conduct, nor apologised for
   their breach of the Rabbinic ordinances, implied at least an attitude
   of indifference towards traditionalism. This is the more noticeable,
   since, as we know, the ordinances of the Scribes were declared more
   precious, [3363] [3364] and of more binding importance than those of
   Holy Scripture itself. [3365] But, even so, the question might arise,
   why Christ should have provoked such hostility by placing Himself in
   marked antagonism to what, after all, was indifferent in itself. The
   answer to this inquiry will require a disclosure of that aspect of
   Rabbinism which, from its painfulness, has hitherto been avoided. Yet
   it is necessary not only in itself, but as showing the infinite
   distance between Christ and the teaching of the Synagogue. It has
   already been told, how Rabbinism, in the madness of its
   self-exaltation, represented God as busying Himself by day with the
   study of the Scriptures, and by night with that of the Mishnah; [3366]
   and how, in the heavenly Sanhedrin, over which the Almighty presided,
   the Rabbis sat in the order of their greatness, and the Halakhah was
   discussed, and decisions taken in accordance with it. [3367] Terrible
   as this sounds, it is not nearly all. Anthropomorphism of the coarsest
   kind is carried beyond the verge of profanity, when God is represented
   as spending the last three hours of every day in playing with
   Leviathan, [3368] and it is discussed, how, since the destruction of
   Jerusalem, God no longer laughs, but weeps, and that, in a secret place
   of His own, according to Jer. xiii. 17. [3369] Nay, Jer. xxv. 30 is
   profanely misinterpreted as implying that, in His grief over the
   destruction of the Temple, the Almighty roars like a lion in each of
   the three watches of the night. [3370] The two tears which He drops
   into the sea are the cause of earthquakes; although other, though not
   less coarsely realistic, explanations are offered of this phenomenon.
   [3371]

   Sentiments like these, which occur in different Rabbinic writings,
   cannot be explained away by any ingenuity of allegorical
   interpretation. There are others, equally painful, as regards the anger
   of the Almighty, which, as kindling specially in the morning, when the
   sun-worshippers offer their prayers, renders it even dangerous for an
   individual Israelite to say certain prayers on the morning of New
   Year's Day, on which the throne is set for judgment. [3372] Such
   realistic anthropomorphism, combined with the extravagant ideas of the
   eternal and heavenly reality of Rabbinism and Rabbinic ordinances, help
   us to understand, how the Almighty was actually represented as saying
   prayers. This is proved from Is. lvi. 7. Sublime through the language
   of these prayers is, we cannot but notice that the all covering mercy,
   for which He is represented as pleading, is extended only to Israel.
   [3373] It is even more terrible to read of God wearing the Tallith,
   [3374] or that He puts on the Phylacteries, which is deduced from Is.
   lxii. 8. That this also is connected with the vain-glorious boasting of
   Israel, appears from the passage supposed to be enclosed in these
   Phylacteries. We know that in the ordinary Phylacteries these are:
   Exod. xiii. 1-10; 10-16; Deut. vi. 4-10; xi. 13-22. In the Divine
   Phylacteries they were: 1 Chron. xvii. 21; Deut. iv. 7-8; xxxiii. 29;
   iv. 34; xxvi. 19. [3375] Only one other point must be mentioned as
   connected with Purifications. To these also the Almighty is supposed to
   submit. Thus He was purified by Aaron, when He had contracted
   defilement by descending into Egypt. [3376] This is deduced from Lev.
   xvi. 16. Similarly, He immersed in a bath of fire, [3377] after the
   defilement of the burial of Moses.

   These painful details, most reluctantly given, are certainly not
   intended to raise or strengthen ignorant prejudices against Israel, to
   whom blindness in part' has truly happened; far less to encourage the
   wicked spirit of contempt and persecution which is characteristic, not
   of believing, but of negative theology. But they will explain, how
   Jesus could not have assumed merely an attitude of indifference towards
   traditionalism. For, even if such sentiments were represented as a
   later development, they are the outcome of a direction, of which that
   of Jesus was the very opposite, and to which it was antagonistic. But,
   if Jesus was not sent of God - not the Messiah - whence this wonderful
   contrast of highest spirituality in what He taught of God as our
   Father, and of His Kingdom as that over the hearts of all men? The
   attitude of antagonism to traditionalism was never more pronounced than
   in what He said in reply to the charge of neglect of the ordinance
   about the washing of hands.' Here it must be remembered, that it was an
   admitted Rabbinic principle that, while the ordinances of Scripture
   required no confirmation, those of the Scribes needed such, [3378] and
   that no Halakhah (traditional law) might contradict Scripture. [3379]
   When Christ, therefore, next proceeded to show, that in a very
   important point - nay, in many such like things' - the Halakhah was
   utterly incompatible with Scripture, that, indeed, they made void the
   Word of God' by their traditions which they had received, [3380] He
   dealt the heaviest blow to traditionalism. Rabbinism stood
   self-condemned; on its own showing, it was to be rejected as
   incompatible with the Word of God.

   It is not so easy to understand, why the Lord should, out of many such
   things,' have selected in illustration the Rabbinic ordinance
   concerning vows, as in certain circumstances, contravening the fifth
   commandment. Of course, the Ten Words' were the Holy of Holies of the
   Law; nor was there any obligation more rigidly observed - indeed,
   carried in practice almost to the verge of absurdity [3381] - than that
   of honour to parents. In both respects, then, this was a specially
   vulnerable point, and it might well be argued that, if in this Law
   Rabbinic ordinances came into conflict with the demands of God's Word,
   the essential contrariety between them must, indeed, be great. Still,
   we feel as if this were not all. Was there any special instance in
   view, in which the Rabbinic law about votive offerings had led to such
   abuse? Or was it only, that at this festive season the Galilean
   pilgrims would carry with them to Jerusalem their votive offerings? Or,
   could the Rabbinic ordinances about the sanctification of the hands'
   (Yadayim) have recalled to the Lord another Rabbinic application of the
   word hand' (yad) in connection with votive offerings? It is at least
   sufficiently curious to find mention here, and it will afford the
   opportunity of briefly explaining, what to a candid reader may seem
   almost inexplicable in the Jewish legal practice to which Christ
   refers.

   At the outset it must be admitted, that Rabbinism did not encourage the
   practice of promiscuous vowing. As we view it, it belongs, at best, to
   a lower and legal standpoint. In this respect Rabbi Akiba put it
   concisely, in one of his truest sayings: Vows are a hedge to
   abstinence.' [3382] On the other hand, if regarded as a kind of return
   for benefits received, or as a promise attaching to our prayers, a vow
   - unless it form part of our absolute and entire self-surrender -
   partakes either of work-righteousness, or appears almost a kind of
   religious gambling. And so the Jewish proverb has it: In the hour of
   need a vow; in time of ease excess.' [3383] Towards such
   work-righteousness and religious gambling the Eastern, and especially
   the Rabbinic Jew, would be particularly inclined. But even the Rabbis
   saw that its encouragement would lead to the profanation of what was
   holy; to rash, idle, and wrong vows; and to the worst and most
   demoralising kind of perjury, as inconvenient consequences made
   themselves felt. Of many sayings, condemnatory of the practice, one
   will suffice to mark the general feeling: He who makes a vow, even if
   he keeps it, deserves the name of wicked.' [3384] Nevertheless, the
   practice must have attained terrible proportions, whether as regards
   the number of vows, the lightness with which they were made, or the
   kind of things which became their object. The larger part of the
   Mishnic Tractate on Vows' (Nedarim, in eleven chapters) describes what
   expressions were to be regarded as equivalent to vows, and what would
   either legally invalidate and annul a vow, or leave it binding. And
   here we learn, that those who were of full age, and not in a position
   of dependence (such as wives) would make almost any kind of vows, such
   as that they would not lie down to sleep, not speak to their wives or
   children, not have intercourse with their brethren, and even things
   more wrong or foolish - all of which were solemnly treated as binding
   on the conscience. Similarly, it was not necessary to use the express
   words of vowing. Not only the word Qorban' [Korban], given to God', but
   any similar expression, such as Qonakh, or Qonam [3385] (the latter
   also a Phoenician expression, and probably an equivalent for Qeyam, let
   it be established') would suffice; the mention of anything laid upon
   the altar (though not of the altar itself). such as the wood, or the
   fire, would constitute a vow, [3386] nay, the repetition of the form
   which generally followed on the votive Qonam or Qorban had binding
   force, even though not preceded by these terms. Thus, if a man said:
   That I eat or taste of such a thing,' it constituted a vow, which bound
   him not to eat or taste it, because the common formula was: Qorban (or
   Qonam) that I eat or drink, or do such a thing,' and the omission of
   the votive word did not invalidate a vow, if it were otherwise
   regularly expressed. [3387]


   It is in explaining this strange provision, intended both to uphold the
   solemnity of vows, and to discourage the rash use of words, that the
   Talmud [3388] makes use of the word hand' in a connection which we have
   supposed might, by association of ideas, have suggested to Christ the
   contrast between what the Bible and what the Rabbis regarded as
   sanctified hands,' and hence between the commands of God and the
   traditions of the Elders. For the Talmud explains that, when a man
   simply says: That (or if) I eat or taste such a thing,' it is imputed
   as a vow, and he may not eat or taste of it, because the hand is on the
   Qorban' [3389] - the mere touch of Qorban had sanctified it, and put it
   beyond his reach, just as if it had been laid on the altar itself.
   Here, then, was a contrast. According to the Rabbis, the touch of a
   common' hand defiled God's good gift of meat, while the touch of a
   sanctified' hand in rash or wicked words might render it impossible to
   give anything to a parent, and so involve the grossest breach of the
   Fifth Commandment! Such, according to Rabbinic Law, was the common' and
   such the sanctifying' touch of the hands - and did such traditionalism
   not truly make void the Word of God'?

   A few further particulars may serve to set this in clearer light. It
   must not be thought that the pronunciation of the votive word Qorban,'
   although meaning a gift,' or given to God,' necessarily dedicated a
   thing to the Temple. The meaning might simply be, and generally was,
   that it was to be regarded like Qorban - that is, that in regard to the
   person or persons named, the thing termed was to be considered as if it
   were Qorban, laid on the altar, and put entirely out of their reach.
   For, although included under the one name, there were really two kinds
   of vows: those of consecration to God, and those of personal obligation
   [3390] - and the latter were the most frequent.

   To continue. The legal distinction between a vow, an oath, and the
   ban,' are clearly marked both in reason and in Jewish Law. The oath was
   an absolute, the vow a conditional undertaking - their difference being
   marked even by this, that the language of a vow ran thus: That' or if'
   I or another do such a thing,' if I eat;' [3391] while that of the oath
   was a simple affirmation or negation, [3392] I shall not eat.' [3393]
   On the other hand, the ban' might refer to one of three things: those
   dedicated for the use of the priesthood, those dedicated to God, or
   else to a sentence pronounced by the Sanhedrin. [3394] In any case it
   was not lawful to ban' the whole of one's property, nor even one class
   of one's property (such as all one's sheep), nor yet what could not, in
   the fullest sense, be called one's property, such as a child, a Hebrew
   slave, or a purchased field, which had to be restored in the Year of
   Jubilee; while an inherited field, if banned, would go in perpetuity
   for the use of the priesthood. Similarly, the Law limited vows. Those
   intended to incite to an act (as on the part of one who sold a thing),
   or by way of exaggeration, or in cases of mistake, and, lastly, vows
   which circumstances rendered impossible, were declared null. To these
   four classes the Mishnah added those made to escape murder, robbery,
   and the exactions of the publican. If a vow was regarded as rash or
   wrong, attempts were made [3395] to open a door for repentance. [3396]
   Absolutions from a vow might be obtained before a sage,' or, in his
   absence, before three laymen, [3397] when all obligations became null
   and void. At the same time the Mishnah [3398] admits, that this power
   of absolving from vows was a tradition hanging, as it were, in the air,
   [3399]   since it received little (or, as Maimonides puts it, no)
   support from Scripture. [3400]

   There can be no doubt, that the words of Christ referred to such vows
   of personal obligation. By these a person might bind himself in regard
   to men or things, or else put that which was another's out of his own
   reach, or that which was his own out of the reach of another, and this
   as completely as if the thing or things had been Qorban, a gift given
   to God. Thus, by simply saying, Qorban,' or Qorban, that by which I
   might be profited by thee,' a person bound himself never to touch,
   taste, or have anything that belonged to the person so addressed.
   Similarly, by saying Qorban, that by which thou mightest be profited by
   me,' he would prevent the person so addressed from ever deriving any
   benefit from that which belonged to him. And so stringent was the
   ordinance that (almost in the words of Christ) it is expressly stated
   that such a vow was binding, even if what was vowed involved a breach
   of the Law. [3401] It cannot be denied that such vows, in regard to
   parents, would be binding, and that they were actually made. [3402]
   Indeed, the question is discussed in the Mishnah in so many words,
   whether honour of father and mother' [3403] constituted a ground for
   invalidating a vow, and decided in the negative against a solitary
   dissenting voice. [3404] And if doubt should still exist, a case is
   related in the Mishnah, [3405] in which a father was thus shut out by
   the vow of his son from anything by which he might be profited by him
   ({hebrew}). [3406] Thus the charge brought by Christ is in fullest
   accordance with the facts of the case. More than this, the manner in
   which it is put by St. Mark shows the most intimate knowledge of Jewish
   customs and law. For, the seemingly inappropriate addition to our
   Lord's mention of the Fifth Commandment of the words: He that revileth
   father or mother, he shall (let him) surely die,' [3407] is not only
   explained but vindicated by the common usage of the Rabbis, [3408] to
   mention along with a command the penalty attaching to its breach, so as
   to indicate the importance which Scripture attached to it. On the other
   hand, the words of St. Mark: Qorban (that is to say, gift (viz., to
   God)) that by which thou mightest be profited by me,' are a most exact
   transcription into Greek of the common formula of vowing, as given in
   the Mishnah and Talmud ({hebrew}). [3409]

   But Christ did not merely show the hypocrisy of the system of
   traditionalism in conjoining in the name of religion the greatest
   outward punctiliousness with the grossest breach of real duty. Never,
   alas! was that aspect of prophecy, which in the present saw the future,
   more clearly vindicated than as the words of Isaiah to Israel now
   appeared in their final fulfilment: This people honoureth Me with their
   lips, but their heart is far from Me. Howbeit, in vain do they worship
   Me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men.' [3410] But in thus
   setting forth for the first time the real character of traditionalism,
   and setting Himself in open opposition to its fundamental principles,
   the Christ enunciated also for the first time the fundamental principle
   of His own interpretation of the Law. That Law was not a system of
   externalism, in which outward things affected the inner man. It was
   moral and addressed itself to man as a moral being - to his heart and
   conscience. As the spring of all moral action was within, so the mode
   of affecting it would be inward. Not from without inwards, but from
   within outwards: such was the principle of the new Kingdom, as setting
   forth the Law in its fulness and fulfilling it. There is nothing from
   without the [3411] man, that, entering into him, can defile him; but
   the things which proceed out of the man, those are they that defile the
   man.' [3412] Not only negatively, but positively, was this the
   fundamental principle of Christian practice in direct contrast to that
   of Pharisaic Judaism. It is in this essential contrariety of principle,
   rather than in any details, that the unspeakable difference between
   Christ and all contemporary teachers appears. Nor is even this all.
   For, the principle laid down by Christ concerning that which entereth
   from without and that which cometh from within, covers, in its full
   application, not only the principle of Christian liberty in regard to
   the Mosaic Law, but touches far deeper and permanent questions,
   affecting not only the Jew, but all men and to all times.

   As we read it, the discussion, to which such full reference has been
   made, had taken place between the Scribes and the Lord, while the
   multitude perhaps stood aside. But when enunciating the grand principle
   of what constituted real defilement, He called to Him the multitude.'
   [3413]   It was probably while pursuing their way to Capernaum, when
   this conversation had taken place, that His disciples afterwards
   reported, that the Pharisees had been offended by that saying of His to
   the multitude. Even this implies the weakness of the disciples: that
   they were not only influenced by the good or evil opinion of these
   religious leaders of the people, but in some measure sympathised with
   their views. All this is quite natural, and as bringing before us real,
   not imaginary persons, so far evidential of the narrative. The answer
   which the Lord gave the disciples bore a twofold aspect: that of solemn
   warning concerning the inevitable fate of every plant which God had not
   planted, and that of warning concerning the character and issue of
   Pharisaic teaching, as being the leadership of the blind by the blind,
   [3414] which must end in ruin to both.

   But even so the words of Christ are represented in the Gospel as
   sounding strange and difficult to the disciples - so truthful and
   natural is the narrative. But they were earnest, genuine men; and when
   they reached the home in Capernaum, Peter, as the most courageous of
   them, broke the reserve - half of fear and half of reverence - which,
   despite their necessary familiarity, seems to have subsisted between
   the Master and His disciples. And the existence of such reverential
   reserve in such circumstances appears, the more it is considered, yet
   another evidence of Christ's Divine Character, just as the implied
   allusion to it in the narrative is another undesigned proof of its
   truthfulness. And so Peter would seek for himself and his
   fellow-disciples an explanation of what still seemed to him only
   parabolic in the Master's teachings. He received it in the fullest
   manner. There was, indeed, one part even in the teaching of the Lord,
   which accorded with the higher views of the Rabbis. Those sins which
   Christ set before them as sins of the outward and inward man, [3415]
   and of what connects the two: our relation to others, were the outcome
   of evil thoughts. And this, at least, the Rabbis also taught;
   explaining, with much detail, how the heart was alike the source of
   strength and of weakness, of good and of evil thoughts, loved and
   hated, envied, lusted and deceived, proving each statement from
   Scripture. [3416] But never before could they have realised, that
   anything entering from without could not defile a man. Least of all
   could they perceive the final inference which St. Mark long afterwards
   derived from this teaching of the Lord: This He said, making all meats
   clean.' [3417] [3418]

   Yet another time had Peter to learn that lesson, when his resistance to
   the teaching of the vision of the sheet let down from heaven was
   silenced by this: What God hath cleansed, make not thou common.' [3419]
   Not only the spirit of legalism, but the very terms common' (in
   reference to the unwashen hands) and making clean' are the same. Nor
   can we wonder at this, if the vision of Peter was real, and not, as
   negative criticism would have it, invented so as to make an imaginary
   Peter - Apostle of the Jews - speak and act like Paul. On that
   hypothesis, the correspondence of thought and expression would seem,
   indeed, inexplicable; on the former, the Peter, who has had that
   vision, is telling through St. Mark the teaching that underlay it all,
   and, as he looked back upon it, drawing from it the inference which he
   understood not at the time: This He said, making all meats clean.'

   A most difficult lesson this for a Jew, and for one like Peter, nay,
   for us all, to learn. And still a third time had Peter to learn it,
   when, in his fear of the Judaisers from Jerusalem, he made that common
   which God had made clean, had care of the unwashen hands, but forgot
   that the Lord had made clean all meats. Terrible, indeed, must have
   been that contention which followed between Paul and Peter. Eighteen
   centuries have passed, and that fatal strife is still the ground of
   theological contention against the truth. [3420] Eighteen centuries,
   and within the Church also the strife still continues. Brethren sharply
   contend and are separated, because they will insist on that as of
   necessity which should be treated as of indifference: because of the
   not eating with unwashen hands, forgetful that He has made all meats
   clean to him who is inwardly and spiritually cleansed.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [3279] St. Matt. xv. 21.

   [3280] St. Mark vi. 45.

   [3281] St. John xii. 21.

   [3282] I have myself counted twelve different places in England bearing
   names which might be freely rendered by Bethsaidsa,' not to speak of
   the many suburbs and quarters which bear a like designation, and, of
   course, my list is anything but complete.

   [3283] In Jer. Megill. (p. 70 a, line 15 from bottom) we read of a
   {hebrew}, but the locality scarcely agrees with our Beth-Saida.

   [3284] St. Mark vi. 45.

   [3285] St. John vi. 17.

   [3286] Comp. Bäedeker (Socin) Paläst. page 270.

   [3287] St. John i. 44; xii. 21.

   [3288] St. Mark i. 29.

   [3289] May this connection of Capernaum and Beth-Saida account for the
   mention of the latter as one of the places which had been the scene of
   so many of His mighty works (St. Matt. xi. 21; St. Luke x. 13)?

   [3290] St. John vi. 59.

   [3291] There is no article in the original.

   [3292] St. John vi. 22-24.

   [3293] St. Mark vi. 53.

   [3294] Jewish War iii. 10.7, 8.

   [3295] Pes. 8 b; Meg. 6 a; Ber. R. 98.

   [3296] Bäedeker (Socin) has grouped together the reasons against
   identifying Khân Minyeh with Capernaum itself.

   [3297] St. Matt. xiv. 34-36; St. Mark vi. 53-56.

   [3298] Mr. Brown McClellan (N.T. vol. i. p. 570) holds, that both the
   Passover and Pentecost had intervened - I know not on what grounds. At
   the same time the language in St. Mark vi. 56, might imply more than
   one occasion on which the same thing happened.

   [3299] St. John vi. 22-25.

   [3300] ver. 59.

   [3301] St. John vi. 4.

   [3302] This is propounded in Wieseler, Chronolog. Synopse, pp. 276,
   290, as a possible view.

   [3303] Pes. 55 a.

   [3304] St. Matt. xv. 1; St. Mark vii. 1.

   [3305] St. John vi. 59.

   [3306] St. Matt. xv. 1 &c.

   [3307] St. Matt. xv. 12-14.

   [3308] St. John vi. 60-66.

   [3309] St. Matt. xv. 10; St. Mark vii. 14, 15.

   [3310] St. Matt. xv. 12-14.

   [3311] St. Matt. xv. 15-20; St. Mark vii. 17-23.

   [3312] St. John ix. 16, 24.

   [3313] The word quite corresponds to the Jewish term. Notwithstanding
   the objection of the learned Bishop Haneberg (Relig. Alterth. p. 475,
   note 288) I believe it corresponds to the Rabbinic {hebrew} or {hebrew}
   (Hebr. {hebrew}) profanus, in the sense of common,' not hallowed.'

   [3314] The fullest account of it within reach of ordinary readers is in
   the Notes to Pocock's Porta Mosis (pp. 350-402) though it is confused,
   not quite accurate, and based chiefly on later Jewish authorities.
   Spencer (de Leg. Hebr. pp. 1175-1179) only adds references to similar
   Gentile rites. Goodwin, even under the revision of Hottinger (pp.
   182-188), is in this instance inferior to Pocock. Buxtorf (Synag. pp.
   179-184) gives chiefly illustrative Jewish legends; Otho (Lex. Rabb.
   pp. 335, 336) extracts from his predecessors, to little advantage. The
   Rabbinic notes of Lightfoot, Wünsche, Schöttgen, and Wetstein give no
   clear account; and the Biblical Dictionaries are either silent, or (as
   Herzog's) very meagre. Other accounts are, unfortunately, very
   inaccurate.

   [3315] Yadayim, in four chapters, which, however, touches on other
   subjects also, notably on the canonicity of certain parts of the O.T.

   [3316] We refer here generally to Chull. 105 a, b, 106 b.

   [3317] Sot. 4 b.

   [3318] Shabb. 62 b.

   [3319] Sot. 4 b.

   [3320] Eduy. v. 6; Ber. 19 a.

   [3321] Chull. 106 a; Bemidb. R. 20, ed. Warsh. p. 81 b.

   [3322] Many illustrative stories are given of its importance, on the
   one hand, and of the danger of neglecting it on the other. With these
   legends it is not necessary to cumber our pages.

   [3323] Chull. 106 a.

   [3324] Chull. 106 a.

   [3325] Lev xi. 44.

   [3326] Ber. 53 b, end.

   [3327] Erub. 17 b; Chull. 105 b.

   [3328] The danger from Salt of Sodom' is specially mentioned.

   [3329] Chull. 105 a, b.

   [3330] {hebrew}, sometimes though rarely, {hebrew}, but not {hebrew},
   which refers to ordinary washing. Occasionally it is simply designated
   by the term Netilah.

   [3331] {hebrew}(Chull. 107 a and b).

   [3332] Chag. ii. 5, 6.

   [3333] This and what follows illustrates St. John ii. 6.

   [3334] tgon

   [3335] Chull. 107 a; Baba B. 58 b, and often.

   [3336] The language of the Mishnah shows that the word {hebrew}, which
   bears as vague and wide meaning as pugm, which seems a literal
   translation of it, can only apply to the wrist.

   [3337] Comp. Yad. ii. 3; Chull. 106 a and b.

   [3338] St. Mark vii. 3.

   [3339] The rendering wash diligently,' gives no meaning; that with the
   fist' is not in accordance with Jewish Law; while that up to the elbow'
   is not only contrary to Jewish Law, but apparently based on a wrong
   rendering of the word {hebrew}. This is fully shown by Wetstein (N. T.
   i. p. 585), but his own explanation, that pugm refers to the measure or
   weight of the water for washing, is inadmissible.

   [3340] Shabb. 14 a.

   [3341] In Yad. iv. 6, the Pharisees in dispute with the Sadducees
   indicate what seems to me a far more likely reason, in the desire to
   protect the Scriptures from profane use.

   [3342] Yad. iii. 2.

   [3343] Yad. iii. 5.

   [3344] Numb. x. 35, 36.

   [3345] Yad. iii. 3-5.

   [3346] By a curious inversion the law ultimately came to be, that the
   Scriptures everywhere defiled the hands, except those of the Priests in
   the Temple (Kel. xv. 6). This on the ground that, taught by former
   enactments, they had learned to keep the Terumah far away from the
   sacred rolls, but really, as I believe, because the law, that the
   Priests' hands became defiled if they touched a copy of the sacred
   rules, must have involved constant difficulties.

   [3347] Chull. 106 b.

   [3348] Shabb. 14 b, end.

   [3349] Or. Sib. iii. 591-593.

   [3350] We must bear in mind, that it was the work of an Egyptian Jew,
   and I cannot help feeling that the language bears some likeness to what
   afterwards was one of the distinctive practices of the Essenes.

   [3351] Shabb. 14 b, about the middle.

   [3352] {hebrew}

   [3353] Jer. Shabb. p. 3 c, d.

   [3354] Shabb. 13 b to 14 b.

   [3355] Jer. Shabb. 3 c.

   [3356] Jer. Shabb. 3 d.

   [3357] Shabb.13 b; 14 b.

   [3358] Shabb. 14 b, towards end.

   [3359] In the Speaker's Commentary' (ad loc.) this extreme minuteness
   of details' is, it seems to me not correctly, accounted for on the
   ground of special reference to the Judaisers who at a very early period
   formed an influential party at Rome.'

   [3360] Ab. Z. 35 a.

   [3361] This is the more striking as the same expression is used in
   reference to the opposition or rather the invalidating' by R. Eliezer
   ben Chanokh of the ordinance of hand-washing, for which he was
   excommunicated ({hebrew}, Eduy. v. 6). The term {hebrew}, which
   originally means to stop up by pouring or putting in something, is used
   for contemning or bringing into contempt, invalidating, or shaking a
   decree, with the same signification as {hebrew}. This is proved from
   the use of the latter in Ab. Z. 35 a, line 9 from bottom, and 36 a,
   line 12 from top.

   [3362] Ab. Zar. v, passim.

   [3363] Jer. Chag. 76 d.

   [3364] In this passage there is a regular discussion, whether that
   which is written (the Pentateuch), or that which is oral (tradition) is
   more precious and to be loved ({hebrew}). The opinion is in favour of
   the oral ({hebrew}).

   [3365] Jer. Ber. 3 b; Sanh. xi. 3; Erub. 21 b.

   [3366] Targum (ed. Ven.) on Cant. v. 10; comp. Ab. Z. 3 b.

   [3367] Baba Mez. 86 a.

   [3368] Ab. Z. u. s.

   [3369] Comp. Chag. 5 b.

   [3370] Ber. 3 a.

   [3371] Ber. 59 a.

   [3372] Ber. 7 a; Ab. Z. 4 b.

   [3373] Ber. 7 a.

   [3374] Shem. R. 42, comp. Rosh haSh. 17 b.

   [3375] Ber. 6 a.

   [3376] Shem. R. 15, ed. warsh. p. 22 a, line 13 from top.

   [3377] Is. lxvi. 15; comp. Numb. xxxi. 23.

   [3378] Jer. Taan. 66 a, about the middle.

   [3379] It was, however, admitted that the Halakhah sometimes went
   beyond the Pentateuch (Sot. 16 a).

   [3380] St. Matt. xv. 3, 6; St. Mark vii. 9, 13.

   [3381] See the remarks this point in vol. i. pp. 567, 576, 577.

   [3382] Ab. iii. 18.

   [3383] Ber. R. 81.

   [3384] Nedar. 9 a; 22 a.

   [3385] According to Nedar. 10 a, the Rabbis invented this word instead
   of Qorban to the Lord' (Lev. i. 2), in order that the Name of God might
   not be idly taken.

   [3386] Nedar. i. 1-3.

   [3387] Jer. Nedar. 36 d, line 20 from top.

   [3388] u. s.

   [3389] {hebrew} (Jer. Nedar. 36 d, line 22).

   [3390] See Maimonides, Yad haChas., Hilkh. Nedar. i. 1, 2.

   [3391] {hebrew}

   [3392] {hebrew}

   [3393] Jer. Ned. u. s.

   [3394] Tos. Arach. iv.

   [3395] {hebrew} they open a door.'

   [3396] Nedar. ix. passim.

   [3397] Maimonides u. s. Hilk. Shebh. v. 1.

   [3398] Chag. i. 8.

   [3399] This is altogether a very curious Mishnah. It adds to the remark
   quoted in the text this other significant admission, that the laws
   about the Sabbath, festive offerings, and the malversation of things
   devoted to God are like mountains hanging by one hair,' since Scripture
   is scant on these subjects, while the traditional Laws are many.

   [3400] On the subject of Vows see also The Temple and its Services,'
   pp. 322-326. The student should consult Siphré, Par. Mattoth, pp. 55 b
   to 58 b.

   [3401] Nedar. ii. 2.

   [3402] I can only express surprise, that Wünsche should throw doubt
   upon it. It is fully admitted by Levy, Targ. Wörterb. sub {hebrew}.

   [3403] {hebrew}

   [3404] Ned. ix. 1.

   [3405] Nedar. v.

   [3406] In this case the son, desirous that his father should share in
   the festivities at his marriage, proposed to give to a friend the court
   in which the banquet was to be held and the banquet itself, but only
   for the purpose that his father might eat and drink with him. The
   proposal was refused as involving sin, and the point afterwards
   discussed and confirmed - implying, that in no circumstances could a
   parent partake of anything belonging to his son, if he had pronounced
   such a vow, the only relaxation being that in case of actual starvation
   (if he have not what to eat') the son might make a present to a third
   person, when the father might in turn receive of it.

   [3407] Ex. xxi. 17.

   [3408] Comp. Wünsche, ad loc.

   [3409] Other translations have been proposed, but the above is taken
   from Nedar. viii. 7, with the change only of Qonam into Qorban.

   [3410] The quotation is a Targum,' which in the last clause follows
   almost entirely the LXX.

   [3411] Mark the definite article.

   [3412] The words in St. Mark vii. 16 are of very doubtful authenticity.

   [3413] St. Matt. xv. 10; St. Mark vii. 14.

   [3414] Both these sayings seem to have been proverbial at the time,
   although I am not able to quote any passage in Jewish writings in which
   they occur in exactly the same form.

   [3415] In St. Mark vii. 21 these outcomings of evil thoughts' are
   arranged in three groups of four, characterised as in the text; while
   in St. Matt. xv. 19 the order of the ten commandments seems followed.
   The account of St. Mark is the fuller. In both accounts the expression
   blasphemy' (blasphema) - rendered in tho Revised Version by railing' -
   seems to refer to calumnious and evil speaking about our fellow-men.

   [3416] Midr. on Eccles. i. 16.

   [3417] St. Mark vii. 19, last clause.

   [3418] I have accepted this rending of the words, first propounded by
   St. Chrysostom, and now adopted in the Revised Version, although not
   without much misgiving. For there is strong objection to it from the
   Jewish usus and views. The statement in Ber. 61 a, last line, The
   oesophagus which causeth to enter and which casteth out all manner of
   meat' ({hebrew}) seems to imply that the words of Christ were a
   proverbial expression. The Taimudic idea is based on the curious
   physiological notion (Midr. on Eccles. vii. 19), that the food passed
   from the oesophagus first into the larger intestine (Hemses, {hebrew},
   perhaps = omasum), where the food was supposed to be crushed as in a
   mill (Vayyik R. 4, 18; Midr. on Eccl. xii. 3), and thence only, through
   various organs, into the stomach proper. (As regards the process in
   animals, see Lewysohn, Zool. d. Talm. pp. 37-40). (The passage from
   Ber. 61 a has been so rendered by Wünsche, in his note on St. Matt. xv.
   17, as to be in parts well nigh unintelligible.) It may interest
   students that the strange word phedrn rendered both in the A.V. and the
   R.V. by draught,' seems to correspond to the Rabbinic Aphidra
   ({hebrew}) which Levy renders by the floor of a stable formed by the
   excrements of the animals which are soaked and stamped into a hard
   mass.'

   [3419] Acts x.14.

   [3420] It is, of course, well known that the reasoning of the Tübingen
   school and of kindred negative theology is based on a supposed
   contrariety between the Petrine and Pauline direction, and that this
   again is chiefly based on the occurrence in Antioch recorded in Gal.
   ii. 11 &c.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XXXII.
THE GREAT CRISIS IN POPULAR FEELING - THE LAST DISCOURSES IN THE SYNAGOGUE OF
CAPERNAUM - CHRIST THE BREAD OF LIFE - WILL YE ALSO GO AWAY?'

   (St. John vi. 22-71.) [3421]

   THE narrative now returns to those who, on the previous evening, had,
   after the miraculous meal, been sent away' to their homes. We remember,
   that this had been after an abortive attempt on their part to take
   Jesus by force and make Him their Messiah-King. We can understand that
   the effectual resistance of Jesus to their purpose not only weakened,
   but in great measure neutralised, the effect of the miracle which they
   had witnessed. In fact, we look upon this check as the first turning of
   the tide of popular enthusiasm. Let us bear in mind what ideas and
   expectations of an altogether external character those men connected
   with the Messiah of their dreams. At last, by some miracle more notable
   even than the giving of the Manna in the wilderness, enthusiasm has
   been raised to the highest pitch, and thousands were determined to give
   up their pilgrimage to the Passover, and then and there proclaim the
   Galilean Teacher Israel's King. If He were the Messiah, such was His
   rightful title. Why then did He so strenuously and effectually resist
   it? In ignorance of His real views concerning the Kingship, they would
   naturally conclude that it must have been from fear, from misgiving,
   from want of belief in Himself. At any rate, He could not be the
   Messiah, Who would not be Israel's King. Enthusiasm of this kind, once
   repressed, could never be kindled again. Henceforth there was
   continuous misunderstanding, doubt and defection among former
   adherents, growing into opposition and hatred unto death. Even to those
   who took not this position, Jesus, His Words and Works, were henceforth
   a constant mystery. [3422] And so it came, that the morning after the
   miraculous meal found the vast majority of those who had been fed,
   either in their homes or on their pilgrim-way to the Passover at
   Jerusalem. Only comparatively few came back to seek Him, where they had
   eaten bread at His Hand. And even to them, as the after-conversation
   shows, Jesus was a mystery. They could not disbelieve, and yet they
   could not believe; and they sought both a sign' to guide, and an
   explanation to give them its understanding. Yet out of them was there
   such selection of grace, that all that the Father had given would reach
   Him, and that they who, by a personal act of believing choice and by
   determination of conviction, would come, should in no wise be rejected
   of Him.

   It is this view of the mental and moral state of those who, on the
   morning after the meal, came to seek Jesus, which alone explains the
   question and answers of the interview at Capernaum. As we read it: the
   day following the multitude which stood on the other (the eastern) side
   of the sea' saw that Jesus was not there, neither His disciples.'
   [3423] But of two facts they were cognizant. They knew that, on the
   evening before, only one boat had come over, bringing Jesus and His
   disciples; and that Jesus had not returned in it with His disciples,
   for they had seen them depart, while Jesus remained to dismiss the
   people. In these circumstances they probably imagined, that Christ had
   returned on foot by land, being, of course, ignorant of the miracle of
   that night. But the wind which had been contrary to the disciples, had
   also driven over to the eastern shore a number of fishing-boats from
   Tiberias (and this is one of the undesigned confirmations of the
   narrative). These they now hired, and came to Capernaum, making inquiry
   for Jesus. Whether on that Friday afternoon they went to meet Him on
   His way from Gennesaret (which the wording of St. John vi. 25 makes
   likely), or awaited His arrival at Capernaum, is of little importance.
   Similarly, it is difficult to determine whether the conversation and
   outlined address of Christ took place on one or partly on several
   occasions: on the Friday afternoon or Sabbath morning, or only on the
   Sabbath. All that we know for certain is, that the last part (at any
   rate [3424] ) was spoken in Synagogue, as He taught in Capernaum.'
   [3425] It has been well observed, that there are evident breaks after
   verse 40 and verse 51.' [3426] Probably the succession of events may
   have been that part of what is here recorded by St. John [3427] had
   taken place when those from across the Lake had first met Jesus; [3428]
   part on the way to, and entering, the Synagogue; [3429] and part as
   what He spoke in His Discourse, [3430] and then after the defection of
   some of His former disciples. [3431] But we can only suggest such an
   arrangement, since it would have been quite consistent with Jewish
   practice, that the greater part should have taken place in the
   Synagogue itself, the Jewish questions and objections representing
   either an irregular running commentary on His Words, or expressions
   during breaks in, or at the conclusion of, His teaching.

   This, however, is a primary requirement, that, what Christ is reported
   to have spoken, should appear suited to His hearers: such as would
   appeal to what they knew, such also as they could understand. This must
   be kept in view, even while admitting that the Evangelist wrote his
   Gospel in the light of much later and fuller knowledge, and for the
   instruction of the Christian Church, and that there may be breaks and
   omissions in the reported, as compared with the original Discourse,
   which, if supplied, would make its understanding much easier to a Jew.
   On the other hand, we have to bear in mind all the circumstances of the
   case. The Discourse in question was delivered in the city, which had
   been the scene of so many of Christ's great miracles, and the centre of
   His teaching, and in the Synagogue, built by the good Centurion, and of
   which Jairus was the chief ruler. Here we have the outward and inward
   conditions for even the most advanced teaching of Christ. Again, it was
   delivered under twofold moral conditions, to which we may expect the
   Discourse of Christ to be adapted. For, first, it was after that
   miraculous feeding which had raised the popular enthusiasm to the
   highest pitch, and also after that chilling disappointment of their
   Judaistic hopes in Christ's utmost resistance to His Messianic
   proclamation. They now came seeking for Jesus,' in every sense of the
   word. They knew not what to make of those, to them, contradictory and
   irreconcilable facts; they came, because they did eat of the loaves,
   without seeing in them signs.' [3432] And therefore they came for such
   a sign' as they could perceive, and for such teaching in interpretation
   of it as they could understand. They were outwardly - by what had
   happened - prepared for the very highest teaching, to which the
   preceding events had led up, and therefore they must receive such, if
   any. But they were not inwardly prepared for it, and therefore they
   could not understand it. Secondly, and in connection with it, we must
   remember that two high points had been reached - by the people, that
   Jesus was the Messiah-King; by the ship's company, that He was the Son
   of God. However imperfectly these truths may have been apprehended, yet
   the teaching of Christ, if it was to be progressive, must start from
   them and then point onwards and upwards. In this expectation we shall
   not be disappointed. And if, by the side of all this, we shall find
   allusions to peculiarly Jewish thoughts and views, these will not only
   confirm the Evangelic narrative, but furnish additional evidence of the
   Jewish authorship of the Fourth Gospel.

   1. The question: [3433] Rabbi, when camest Thou hither?' with which
   they from the eastern shore greeted Jesus, seems to imply that they
   were perplexed about, and that some perhaps had heard a vague rumour of
   the miracle of His return to the western shore. It was the beginning of
   that unhealthy craving for the miraculous which the Lord had so sharply
   to reprove. In His own words: they sought Him not because they saw
   signs,' but because they ate of the loaves,' and, in their coarse love
   for the miraculous, were filled.' [3434] What brought them, was not
   that they had discerned either the higher meaning of that miracle, or
   the Son of God, but those carnal Judaistic expectancies which had led
   them to proclaim Him King. What they waited for, was a Kingdom of God -
   not in righteousness, joy, and peace in the Holy Ghost, but in meat and
   drink - a kingdom with miraculous wilderness-banquets to Israel, and
   coarse miraculous triumphs over the Gentiles. Not to speak of the
   fabulous Messianic banquet which a sensuous realism expected, or of the
   achievements for which it looked, every figure in which prophets had
   clothed the brightness of those days was first literalised, and then
   exaggerated, till the most glorious poetic descriptions became the most
   repulsively incongruous caricatures of spiritual Messianic expectancy.
   The fruit-trees were every day, or at least every week or two, to yield
   their riches, the fields their harvests; [3435] the grain was to stand
   like palm trees, and to be reaped and winnowed without labour. [3436]
   Similar blessings were to visit the vine; ordinary trees would bear
   like fruit trees, and every produce, of every clime, would be found in
   Palestine in such abundance and luxuriance as only the wildest
   imagination could conceive.

   Such were the carnal thoughts about the Messiah and His Kingdom of
   those who sought Jesus because they ate of the loaves, and were
   filled.' What a contrast between them and the Christ, as He pointed
   them from the search for such meat to work for the meat which He would
   give them,' not a merely Jewish Messiah, but as the son of Man.' And
   yet, in uttering this strange truth, Jesus could appeal to something
   they knew when He added, for Him the Father hath sealed, even God.' The
   words, which seem almost inexplicable in this connection, become clear
   when we remember that this was a well-known Jewish expression.
   According to the Rabbis, the seal of God was Truth (AeMeTH),' the three
   letters of which this word is composed in Hebrew ({hebrew}) being, as
   was significantly pointed out, respectively the first, the middle, and
   the last letters of the alphabet. [3437] Thus the words of Christ would
   convey to His hearers that for the real meat, which would endure to
   eternal life - for the better Messianic banquet - they must come to
   Him, because God had impressed upon Him His own seal of truth, and so
   authenticated His Teaching and Mission.

   In passing, we mark this as a Jewish allusion, which only a Jewish
   writer (not an Ephesian Gospel) would have recorded. But it is by no
   means the only one. It almost seems like a sudden gleam of light - as
   if they were putting their hand to this Divine Seal, when they now ask
   Him what they must do, in order to work the Works of God? Yet strangely
   refracted seems this ray of light, when they connect the Works of God
   with their own doing. And Christ directed them, as before, only more
   clearly, to Himself. To work the Works of God they must not do, but
   believe in Him Whom God had sent. Their twofold error consisted in
   imagining, that they could work the Works of God, and this by some
   doing of their own. On the other hand, Christ would have taught them
   that these Works of God were independent of man, and that they would be
   achieved through man's faith in the Mission of the Christ.

   2. As it impresses itself on our minds, what now follows [3438] took
   place at a somewhat different time - perhaps on the way to the
   Synagogue. It is a remarkable circumstance, that among the ruins of the
   Synagogue of Capernaum the lintel has been discovered, and that it
   bears the device of a pot of manna, ornamented with a flowing pattern
   of vine leaves and clusters of grapes. [3439] Here then were the
   outward emblems, which would connect themselves with the Lord's
   teaching on that day. The miraculous feeding of the multitude in the
   desert place' the evening before, and the Messianic thoughts which
   clustered around it, would naturally suggest to their minds remembrance
   of the manna. That manna, which was Angels' food, distilled (as they
   imagined) from the upper light, the dew from above' [3440] - miraculous
   food, of all manner of taste, and suited to every age, according to the
   wish or condition of him who see ate it, [3441] but bitterness to
   Gentile palates - they expected the Messiah to bring again from heaven.
   For, all that the first deliverer Moses had done, the second - Messiah
   - would also do. [3442] And here, over their Synagogue, was the pot of
   manna - symbol of what God had done, earnest of what the Messiah would
   do: that pot of manna, which was now among the things hidden, but which
   Elijah, when he came, would restore again!


   Here, then, was a real sign. In their view the events of yesterday must
   lead up to some such sign, if they had any real meaning. They had been
   told to believe on Him, as the One authenticated by God with the seal
   of Truth, and Who would give them meat to eternal life. By what sign
   would Christ corroborate His assertion, that they might see and
   believe? What work would He do to vindicate His claim? Their fathers
   had eaten manna in the wilderness. To understand the reasoning of the
   Jews, implied but not fully expressed, as also the answer of Jesus, it
   is necessary to bear in mind (what forms another evidence of the Jewish
   authorship of the Fourth Gospel), that it was the oft and most
   anciently expressed opinion that, although God had given them this
   bread out of heaven, yet it was given through the merits of Moses, and
   ceased with his death. [3443] This the Jews had probably in view, when
   they asked: What workest Thou?'; and this was the meaning of Christ's
   emphatic assertion, that it was not Moses who gave Israel that bread.
   And then by what, with all reverence, may still be designated a
   peculiarly Jewish turn of reasoning - such as only those familiar with
   Jewish literature can fully appreciate (and which none but a Jewish
   reporter would have inserted in his Gospel) - the Saviour makes quite
   different, yet to them familiar, application of the manna. Moses had
   not given it - his merits had not procured it - but His Father gave
   them the true bread out of heaven. For,' as He explained, the bread of
   God is that [3444] which cometh down from heaven, and giveth life unto
   the world.' Again, this very Rabbinic tradition, which described in
   such glowing language the wonders of that manna, also further explained
   its other and real meaning to be, that if Wisdom said, Eat of my bread
   and drink of my wine,' [3445] it indicated that the manna and the
   miraculous water-supply were the sequence of Israel's receiving the Law
   and the Commandments [3446] - for the real bread from heaven was the
   Law. [3447] [3448]

   It was an appeal which the Jews understood, and to which they could not
   but respond. Yet the mood was brief. As Jesus, in answer to the appeal
   that He would evermore give them this bread, once more directed them to
   Himself - from works of men to the Works of God and to faith - the
   passing gleam of spiritual hope had already died out, for they had seen
   Him and yet did not believe.'

   With these words of mingled sadness and judgment, Jesus turned away
   from His questioners. The solemn sayings which now followed [3449]
   could not have been spoken to, and they would not have been understood
   by, the multitude. And accordingly we find that, when the conversation
   of the Jews is once more introduced, [3450] it takes up the thread
   where it had been broken off, when Jesus spake of Himself as the Bread
   Which had come down from heaven. Had they heard what, in our view,
   Jesus spake only to His disciples, their objections would have been to
   more than merely the incongruity of Christ's claim to have come down
   from heaven. [3451]

   3. Regarding these words of Christ, then, as addressed to the
   disciples, there is really nothing in them beyond their standpoint,
   though they open views of the far horizon. They had the experience of
   the raising of the young man at Nain, and there, at Capernaum, of
   Jairus' daughter. Besides, believing that Jesus was the Messiah, it
   might perhaps not be quite strange nor new to them as Jews - although
   not commonly received - that He would at the end of the world raise the
   pious dead. [3452] Indeed, one of the names given to the Messiah - that
   of Yinnon, according to Ps. lxxii. 17 [3453] - has by some been derived
   from this very expectancy. [3454] Again, He had said, that it was not
   any Law, but His Person, that was the bread which came down from
   heaven, and gave life, not to Jews only, but unto the world - and they
   had seen Him and believed not. But none the less would the loving
   purpose of God be accomplished in the totality of His true people, and
   its joyous reality be experienced by every individual among them: All
   that (the total number, pn ) which the Father giveth Me shall come unto
   Me (shall reach Me [3455] ), and him that cometh unto Me (the coming
   one to Me) I will not cast out outside.' What follows is merely the
   carrying out in all directions, and to its fullest consequences, of
   this twofold fundamental principle. The totality of the God-given would
   really reach Him, despite all hindrances, for the object of His Coming
   was to do the Will of His Father; and those who came would not be cast
   outside, for the Will of Him that had sent Him, and which He had come
   to do, was that of the all which He has given' Him, He should not lose
   anything out of this, but raise it up in the last day.' Again, the
   totality - the all - would reach Him, since it was the Will of Him that
   sent Him that everyone (ps) who intently looketh [3456] at the Son, and
   believeth on Him, should have eternal life;' and the coming ones would
   not be cast outside, since this was His undertaking and promise as the
   Christ in regard to each: And raise him up will I at the last day.'
   [3457]

   Although these wonderful statements reached in their full meaning far
   beyond the present horizon of His disciples, and even to the utmost
   bounds of later revelation and Christian knowledge, there is nothing in
   them which could have seemed absolutely strange or unintelligible to
   those who heard them. Given belief in the Messiahship of Jesus and His
   Mission by the Father; given experience of what He had done, and
   perhaps, to a certain extent, Jewish expectancy of what the Messiah
   would do in the last day; and all this directed or corrected by the
   knowledge concerning His work which His teaching had imparted, and the
   words were intelligible and most suitable, even though they would not
   convey to them all that they mean to us. If so seemingly incongruous an
   illustration might be used, they looked through a telescope that was
   not yet drawn out, and saw the same objects, through quite diminutively
   and far otherwise than we, as gradually the hand of Time has drawn out
   fully that through which both they and we, who believe, intently gaze
   on the Son.

   4. What now follows [3458] is again spoken to the Jews,' and may have
   occurred just as they were entering the Synagogue. To those spiritually
   unenlightened, the point of difficulty seemed, how Christ could claim
   to be the Bread come down from heaven. Making the largest allowance,
   His known parentage and early history [3459] forbade anything like a
   literal interpretation of His Words. But this inability to understand,
   ever brings out the highest teaching of Christ. We note the analogous
   fact, and even the analogous teaching, in the case of Nicodemus. [3460]
   [3461] Only, his was the misunderstanding of ignorance, theirs of
   wilful resistance to His Manifestation; and so the tone towards them
   was other than to the Rabbi.

   Yet we also mark, that what Jesus now spake to the Jews' was the same
   in substance, though different in application, from what He had just
   uttered to the disciples. This, not merely in regard to the Messianic
   prediction of the Resurrection, but even in what He pronounced as the
   judgment on their murmuring. The words: No man can come to Me, except
   the Father Which hath sent Me draw him,' present only the converse
   aspect of those to the disciples: All that which the Father giveth Me
   shall come unto Me, and him that cometh unto Me I will in no wise cast
   out.' For, far from being a judgment on, it would have been an excuse
   of, Jewish unbelief, and, indeed, entirely discordant with all Christ's
   teaching, if the inability to come were regarded as other than personal
   and moral, springing from man's ignorance and opposition to spiritual
   things. No man can come to the Christ - such is the condition of the
   human mind and heart, that coming to Christ as a disciple is, not an
   outward, but an inward, not a physical, but a moral impossibility -
   except the Father draw him.' And this, again, not in the sense of any
   constraint, but in that of the personal, moral, loving influence and
   revelation, to which Christ afterwards refers when He saith: And I, if
   I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto Myself.' [3462]

   Nor did Jesus, even while uttering these high, entirely un-Jewish
   truths, forget that He was speaking them to Jews. The appeal to their
   own Prophets was the more telling, that Jewish tradition also applied
   these two prophecies (Is. liv. 13; Jer. xxxi. 34) to the teaching by
   God in the Messianic Age. [3463] [3464] But the explanation of the
   manner and issue of God's teaching was new: Everyone that hath heard
   from the Father, and learned, cometh unto Me.' And this, not by some
   external or realistic contact with God, such as they regarded that of
   Moses in the past, or expected for themselves in the latter days; only
   He Which is from God, He hath seen the Father.' But even this might
   sound general and without exclusive reference to Christ. So, also,
   might this statement seem: He that believeth [3465] hath eternal life.'
   Not so the final application, in which the subject was carried to its
   ultimate bearing, and all that might have seemed general or mysterious
   plainly set forth. The Personality of Christ was the Bread of Life: I
   am the Bread of Life.' [3466] The Manna had not been bread of life, for
   those who ate it had died, their carcasses had fallen in the
   wilderness. Not so in regard to this, the true Bread from heaven. To
   share in that Food was to have everlasting life, a life which the sin
   and death of unbelief and judgment would not cut short, as it had that
   of them who had eaten the Manna and died in the wilderness. It was
   another and a better Bread which came from heaven in Christ, and
   another, better, and deathless life which was connected with it: the
   Bread that I will give is My Flesh, [3467] for the life of the world.'

   5. These words, so deeply significant to us, as pointing out the true
   meaning of all His teaching, must, indeed, have sounded most
   mysterious. Yet the fact that they strove about their meaning shows,
   that they must have had some glimmer of apprehension that they bore on
   His self-surrender, or, as they might view it, His martyrdom. This last
   point is set forth in the concluding Discourse, [3468] which we know to
   have been delivered in the Synagogue, whether before, during, or after,
   His regular Sabbath address. It was not a mere martyrdom for the life
   of the world, in which all who benefitted by it would share - but
   personal fellowship with Him. Eating the Flesh and drinking the Blood
   of the Son of Man, such was the necessary condition of securing eternal
   life. It is impossible to mistake the primary reference of these words
   to our personal application of His Death and Passion to the deepest
   need and hunger of our souls; most difficult, also, to resist the
   feeling that, secondarily, [3469] they referred to that Holy Feast
   which shows forth that Death and Passion, and is to all time its
   remembrance, symbol, seal, and fellowship. In this, also, has the hand
   of History drawn out the telescope; and as we gaze through it, every
   sentence and word sheds light upon the Cross and light from the Cross,
   carrying to us this twofold meaning: His Death, and its Celebration in
   the great Christian Sacrament.

   6. But to them that heard it, nay even to many of His disciples, this
   was an hard saying. Who could bear it? For it was a thorough
   disenchantment of all their Judaic illusions, an entire upturning of
   all their Messianic thoughts, and that, not merely to those whose views
   were grossly carnal, but even to many who had hitherto been drawn
   closer to Him. The meat' and drink' from heaven which had the Divine
   seal of truth' were, according to Christ's teaching, not the Law,' nor
   yet Israel's privileges, but fellowship with the Person of Jesus in
   that state of humbleness (the Son of Joseph,' [3470] ), nay, or
   martyrdom, which His words seemed to indicate, My Flesh is the true
   [3471] meat, and My Blood is the true drink;' [3472] and what even this
   fellowship secured, consisted only in abiding in Him and He in them;
   [3473] or, as they would understand it, in inner communion with Him,
   and in sharing His condition and views. Truly, this was a totally
   different Messiah and Messianic Kingdom from what they either conceived
   or wished.


   Though they spake it not, this was the rock of offence over which they
   stumbled and fell. And Jesus read their thoughts. How unfit were they
   to receive all that was yet to happen in connection with the Christ -
   how unprepared for it! If they stumbled at this, what when they came to
   contemplate [3474] the far more mysterious and un-Jewish facts of the
   Messiah's Crucifixion and Ascension! [3475] Truly, not outward
   following, but only inward and spiritual life-quickening could be of
   profit - even in the case of those who heard the very Words of Christ,
   which were spirit and life. Thus it again appeared, and most fully,
   that, morally speaking, it was absolutely impossible to come to Him,
   even if His Words were heard, except under the gracious influence from
   above. [3476]

   And so this was the great crisis in the History of the Christ. We have
   traced the gradual growth and development of the popular movement, till
   the murder of the Baptist stirred popular feeling to its inmost depth.
   With his death it seemed as if the Messianic hope, awakened by his
   preaching and testimony to Christ, were fading from view. It was a
   terrible disappointment, not easily borne. Now must it be decided,
   whether Jesus was really the Messiah. His Works, notwithstanding what
   the Pharisees said, seemed to prove it. Then let it appear; let it
   come, stroke upon stroke - each louder and more effective than the
   other - till the land rang with the shout of victory and the world
   itself re-echoed it. And so it seemed. That miraculous feeding - that
   wilderness-cry of Hosanna to the Galilean King-Messiah from thousands
   of Galilean voices - what were they but its beginning? All the greater
   was the disappointment: first, in the repression of the movement - so
   to speak, the retreat of the Messiah, His voluntary abdication, rather,
   His defeat; then, next day, the incongruousness of a King, Whose few
   unlearned followers, in their ignorance and un-Jewish neglect of most
   sacred ordinances, outraged every Jewish feeling, and whose conduct was
   even vindicated by their Master in a general attack on all
   traditionalism, that basis of Judaism - as it might be represented, to
   the contempt of religion and even of common truthfulness in the
   denunciation of solemn vows! This was not the Messiah Whom the many -
   nay, Whom almost any - would own. [3477]

   Here, then, we are at the parting of the two ways; and, just because it
   was the hour of decision, did Christ so clearly set forth the highest
   truths concerning Himself, in opposition to the views which the
   multitude entertained about the Messiah. The result was yet another and
   a sorer defection. Upon this many of His disciples went back, and
   walked no more with Him.' [3478] Nay, the searching trial reached even
   unto the hearts of the Twelve. Would they also go away? It was an
   anticipation of Gethsemane - its first experience. But one thing kept
   them true. It was the experience of the past. This was the basis of
   their present faith and allegiance. They could not go back to their old
   past; they must cleave to Him. So Peter spake it in name of them all:
   Lord, to whom shall we go? Words of Eternal Life hast Thou!' Nay, and
   more than this, as the result of what they had learned: And we have
   believed and know that Thou art the Holy One of God.' [3479] [3480] It
   is thus, also, that many of us, whose thoughts may have been sorely
   tossed, and whose foundations terribly assailed, may have found our
   first resting-place in the assured, unassailable spiritual experience
   of the past. Whither can we go for Words of Eternal Life, if not to
   Christ? If He fails us, then all hope of the Eternal is gone. But He
   has the Words of Eternal life - and we believed when they first came to
   us; nay, we know that He is the Holy One of God. And this conveys all
   that faith needs for further learning. The rest will He show, when He
   is transfigured in our sight.

   But of these Twelve Christ knew one to be a devil' - like that Angel,
   fallen from highest height to lowest depth. [3481]   The apostasy of
   Judas had already commenced in his heart. And, the greater the popular
   expectancy and disappointment had been, the greater the reaction and
   the enmity that followed. The hour of decision was past, and the hand
   on the dial pointed to the hour of His Death.

   THE ASCENT:

   FROM THE RIVER JORDAN TO THE MOUNT OF TRANSFIGURATION.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [3421] It is specially requested that this chapter be read along with
   the text of Scripture.

   [3422] We are here involuntarily reminded of the fate of Elijah on the
   morning after the miracle on Mount Carmel. But how different the
   bearing of Christ from that of the great prophet!

   [3423] vv. 22, 24.

   [3424] St. John vi. 53-58.

   [3425] ver. 59.

   [3426] Westcott, ad. loc.

   [3427] vi. 25-65.

   [3428] vv. 25-36.

   [3429] vv. 41-52.

   [3430] vv. 52-58.

   [3431] vv. 61-65.

   [3432] ver. 26.

   [3433] St. John vi. 25-29.

   [3434] Canon Westcott notes the intended realism in the choice of
   words: Literally, "were satisfied with food as animals with fodder."' -
   chortsthete.

   [3435] Shabb. 30 b; Jer. Sheqal. vi. 2.

   [3436] Kethub. 111 b.

   [3437] Jer. Sanh. 18 a; Ber. R. 81.

   [3438] St John vi. 30-36.

   [3439] Comp. Sketches of Jewish Social Life,' pp. 256, 257.

   [3440] Yoma 75 b.

   [3441] Shem. R. 25.

   [3442] Midr. on Eccles. i. 9.

   [3443] Targ. PseudoJon. on Deut. xxxiv. 8; Taan. 9 a.

   [3444] Not as in the A.V. of ver. 33: He Which cometh down from
   heaven.' The alteration is most important in the argument as addressed
   to the Jews: the one they could understand and would admit, not so the
   other.

   [3445] Prov. ix. 5.

   [3446] Shem. R. 25.

   [3447] Comp. Chag. 14 a.

   [3448] In the Midrash on Eccl. ii. 24; iii. 12; viii. 15, we are told,
   that when in Ecclesiastes we read of eating and drinking, it always
   refers to the Law and good works.

   [3449] St. John vi. 37-40.

   [3450] ver. 41.

   [3451] After having arrived at this conclusion, I find that Canon
   Westcott has expressed the same views, and I rejoice in being fortified
   by so great an authority.

   [3452] But not here and there one dead. In general, see vol. i. p. 633,
   where the question of Jewish belief on that subject is discussed.

   [3453] Sanh. 98 b.

   [3454] Midrash on Ps. xciii. 1; Pirké de R. Eliez. 32, ed. Lemb. p. 39
   b.

   [3455] So Canon Westcott; and also Godet ad loc.

   [3456] Mark the special meaning of theorn as previously explained.

   [3457] St. John vi. 40.

   [3458] St. John vi. 41-51.

   [3459] This is not narrated in the Fourth Gospel. But allusions like
   this cover the whole early history of Jesus, and prove that omissions
   of the most important facts in the history of Jesus are neither due to
   ignorance of them on the part of the writer of the Fourth Gospel, nor
   to the desire to express by silence his dissent from the accounts of
   the Synoptists.

   [3460] St. John iii. 3 &c.

   [3461] Canon Westcott has called attention to this.

   [3462] St. John xii. 32.

   [3463] Is. liv. 13 in Ber. R. 95 on Gen. xlvi. 28; Jerem. xxxi. 34 in
   Yalkut vol ii. p. 66 d.

   [3464] For other Rabbinic applications of these verses to the Messiah
   and His times, see the Appendix on Messianic passages.

   [3465] The words on Me' are spurious.

   [3466] ver. 48.

   [3467] The words in the A.V., which I will give,' are spurious.

   [3468] vv. 53-58.

   [3469] Canon Westcott (ad loc.) clearly shows, that the reference to
   the Holy Supper can only be secondary. Mark here specially, that in the
   latter we have the Body,' not the Flesh' of the Lord.

   [3470] ver. 42.

   [3471] Comp. here the remarks on ver. 27, about Truth as the seal with
   which God sealed the Christ.

   [3472] ver. 55.

   [3473] ver. 56.

   [3474] Mark here also the special meaning of theorte.

   [3475] ver. 62.

   [3476] ver. 65; comp. vv. 37, 44.

   [3477] St. Matt. xv. 12.

   [3478] St. John vi. 66.

   [3479] vv. 68, 69.

   [3480] This is the reading of all the best MSS., and not as in the A.V.
   that Christ, the Son of the Living God.' For the history of the
   variations by which this change was brought about, see Westcott, ad
   loc.

   [3481] The right reading of ver. 71 is: Judas the son of Simon
   Iscariot,' that is, a man of Kerioth.' Kerioth was in Judæa (Josh. xv.
   25), and Judas, it will be remembered, the only Judæan disciple of
   Jesus.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XXXIII.
JESUS AND THE SYRO-PHOENICIAN WOMAN

   (St. Matt. xv. 21-28; St. Mark vii. 24-30.)

   THE purpose of Christ to withdraw His disciples from the excitement of
   Galilee, and from what might follow the execution of the Baptist, had
   been interrupted by the events at Bethsaida-Julias, but it was not
   changed. On the contrary, it must have been intensified. That wild,
   popular outburst, which had almost forced upon Him a Jewish
   Messiah-Kingship; the discussion with the Jerusalem Scribes about the
   washing of hands on the following day; the Discourses of the Sabbath,
   and the spreading disaffection, defection, and opposition which were
   its consequences - all pointed more than ever to the necessity of a
   break in the publicity of His Work, and to withdrawal from that part of
   Galilee. The nearness of the Sabbath, and the circumstance that the
   Capernaum-boat lay moored on the shore of Bethsaida, had obliged Him,
   when withdrawing from that neighbourhood, to return to Capernaum. And
   there the Sabbath had to be spent - in what manner we know. But as soon
   as its sacred rest was past, the journey was resumed. For the reasons
   already explained, it extended much further than any other, and into
   regions which, we may venture to suggest, would not have been traversed
   but for the peculiar circumstances of the moment.

   A comparatively short journey would bring Jesus and His companions from
   Capernaum into the parts,' or, as St. Mark more specifically calls
   them, the borders of Tyre and Sidon.' At that time this district
   extended, north of Galilee, [3482] from the Mediterranean to the
   Jordan. But the event about to be related occurred, as all
   circumstances show, not within the territory of Tyre and Sidon, but on
   its borders, and within the limits of the Land of Israel. If any doubt
   could attach to the objects which determined Christ's journey to those
   parts, it would be removed by the circumstance that St. Matthew [3483]
   tells us, He withdrew' [3484] thither, while St. Mark notes that He
   entered into an house, and would have no man know it.' That house in
   which Jesus sought shelter and privacy would, of course, be a Jewish
   home; and, that it was within the borders of Israel, is further
   evidenced by the notice of St. Matthew, that the Canaanitish woman' who
   sought His help came out from those borders' - that is, from out the
   Tyro-Sidonian district - into that Galilean border where Jesus was.

   The whole circumstances seem to point to more than a night's rest in
   that distant home. Possibly, the two first Passover-days may have been
   spent here. If the Saviour had left Capernaum on the Sabbath evening,
   or the Sunday morning, He may have reached that home on the borders
   before the Paschal Eve, and the Monday and Tuesday [3485] may have been
   the festive Paschal days, on which sacred rest was enjoined. This would
   also give an adequate motive for such a sojourn in that house, as seems
   required by the narrative of St. Mark. According to that Evangelist,
   Jesus would have no man know' His Presence in that place, but He could
   not be hid.' Manifestly, this could not apply to the rest of one night
   in a house. According to the same Evangelist, the fame of His Presence
   spread into the neighbouring district of Tyre and Sidon, and reached
   the mother of the demonised child, upon which she went from her home
   into Galilee to apply for help to Jesus. All this implies a stay of two
   or three days. And with this also agrees the after-complaint of the
   disciples: Send her away, for she crieth after us.' [3486] As the
   Saviour apparently received the woman in the house, [3487] it seems
   that she must have followed some of the disciples, entreating their
   help or intercession in a manner that attracted the attention which,
   according to the will of Jesus, they would fain have avoided, before,
   in her despair, she ventured into the Presence of Christ within the
   house.

   All this resolves into a higher harmony those small seeming
   discrepancies, which negative criticism had tried to magnify into
   contradictions. It also adds graphic details to the story. She who now
   sought His help was, as St. Matthew calls her, from the Jewish
   standpoint, a Canaanitish [3488] woman,' by which term a Jew would
   designate a native of Phoenicia, or, as St. Mark calls her, a
   Syro-Phoenician (to distinguish her country from Lybo-Phoenicia), and a
   Greek' - that is, a heathen. But, we can understand how she who, as
   Bengel says, made the misery of her little child her own, would, on
   hearing of the Christ and His mighty deed, seek His help with the most
   intense earnestness, and that, in so doing, she would approach Him with
   lowliest reverence, falling at His Feet. [3489] But what in the
   circumstances seems so peculiar, and, in our view, furnishes the
   explanation of the Lord's bearing towards this woman, is her mode of
   addressing Him: O Lord, Thou Son of David!' This was the most
   distinctively Jewish appellation of the Messiah; and yet it is
   emphatically stated of her, that she was a heathen. Tradition has
   preserved a few reported sayings of Christ, of which that about to be
   quoted seems, at least, quite Christ-like. It is reported that, having
   seen a man working on the Sabbath, He said: "O man, if indeed thou
   knowest what thou doest, thou are blessed; but if thou knowest not,
   thou are cursed, and art a transgressor of the Law."' [3490] The same
   principle applied to the address of this woman - only that, in what
   followed, Christ imparted to her the knowledge needful to make her
   blessed.

   Spoken by a heathen, these words were an appeal, not to the Messiah of
   Israel, but to an Israelitish Messiah - for David had never reigned
   over her or her people. The title might be most rightfully used, if the
   promises to David were fully and spiritually apprehended - not
   otherwise. If used without that knowledge, it was an address by a
   stranger to a Jewish Messiah, Whose works were only miracles, and not
   also and primarily signs. Now this was exactly the error of the Jews
   which Jesus had encountered and combated, alike when He resisted the
   attempt to make Him King, in His reply to the Jerusalem Scribes, and in
   His Discourses at Capernaum. To have granted her the help she so
   entreated, would have been, as it were, to reverse the whole of His
   Teaching, and to make His works of healing merely works of power. For,
   it will not be contended that this heathen woman had full spiritual
   knowledge of the world-wide bearing of the Davidic promises, or of the
   world embracing designation of the Messiah as the Son of David. In her
   mouth, then, it meant something to which Christ could not have yielded.
   And yet He could not refuse her petition. And so He first taught her,
   in such manner as she could understand - that which she needed to know,
   before she could approach Him in such manner - the relation of the
   heathen to the Jewish world, and of both to the Messiah, and then He
   gave her what she asked.

   It is this, we feel convinced, which explains all. It could not have
   been, that from His human standpoint He first kept silence, His deep
   tenderness and sympathy forbidding Him to speak, while the normal
   limitation of His Mission forbade Him to act as she sought. [3491]
   Such limitations could not have existed in His mind; nor can we suppose
   such an utter separation of His Human from His Divine consciousness in
   His Messianic acting. And we recoil from the opposite explanation,
   which supposes Christ to have either tried the faith of the woman, or
   else spoken with a view to drawing it out. We shrink from the idea of
   anything like an after-thought, even for a good purpose, on the part of
   the Divine Saviour. All such afterthoughts are, to our thinking,
   incompatible with His Divine Purity and absolute rectitude. God does
   not make us good by a device - and that is a very wrong view of trials,
   or of delayed answers to prayer, which men sometimes take. Nor can we
   imagine, that the Lord would have made such cruel trial of the poor
   agonised woman, or played on her feelings, when the issue would have
   been so unspeakable terrible, if in her weakness she had failed. There
   is nothing analogous in the case of this poor heathen coming to
   petition, and being tried by being told that she could not be heard,
   because she belonged to the dogs, not the children, and the trial of
   Abraham, who was a hero of faith, and had long walked with God. In any
   case, on any of the views just combated, the Words of Jesus would bear
   a needless and inconceivable harshness, which grates on all our
   feelings concerning Him. The Lord does not afflict willingly, nor try
   needlessly, nor disguise His loving thoughts and purposes, in order to
   bring about some effect in us. He needs not such means; and, with
   reverence be it said, we cannot believe that He ever uses them.

   But, viewed as the teaching of Christ to this heathen concerning
   Israel's Messiah, all becomes clear, even in the very brief reports of
   the Evangelists, of which that by St. Matthew reads like that of one
   present, that of St. Mark rather like that of one who relates what he
   has heard from another (St. Peter). She had spoken, but Jesus had
   answered her not a word. When the disciples - in some measure,
   probably, still sharing the views of this heathen, that he was the
   Jewish Messiah - without, indeed, interceding for her, asked that she
   might be sent away, because she was troublesome to them, He replied,
   that His Mission was only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
   This was absolutely true, as regarded His Work while upon earth; and
   true, in every sense, as we keep in view the world-wide bearing of the
   Davidic reign and promises, and the real relation between Israel and
   the world. Thus baffled, as it might seem, she cried no longer Son of
   David,' but, Lord, help me.' It was then that the special teaching came
   in the manner she could understand. If it were as the Son of David'
   that He was entreated - if the heathen woman as such applied to the
   Jewish Messiah as such, what, in the Jewish view, were the heathens but
   dogs,' and what would be fellowship with them, but to cast to the dogs
   - house-dogs, [3492] it may be - what should have been the children's
   bread? And, certainly, no expression more common in the mouth of the
   Jews, than that which designated the heathens as dogs. [3493] [3494]
   Most harsh as it was, as the outcome of national pride and Jewish
   self-assertion, yet in a sense it was true, that those within were the
   children, and those without' dogs.' [3495] Only, who were they within
   and who they without? What made a child,' whose was the bread - and
   what characterised the dog,' that was without'?

   Two lessons did she learn with that instinct-like rapidity which
   Christ's personal Presence - and it alone - seemed ever and again to
   call forth, just as the fire which fell from heaven consumed the
   sacrifice of Elijah. Yea, Lord,' it is as Thou sayest: heathenism
   stands related to Judaism as the house-dogs to the children, and it
   were not meet to rob the children of their bread in order to give it to
   dogs. But Thine own words show, that such would not now be the case. If
   they are house-dogs, then they are the Master's, and under His table,
   and when He breaks the bread to the children, in the breaking of it the
   crumbs must fall all around. As St. Matthew puts it: The dogs eat of
   the crumbs which fall from their Master's table;' as St. Mark puts it:
   The dogs under the table eat of the children's crumbs.' Both versions
   present different aspects of the same truth. Heathenism may be like the
   dogs, when compared with the children's place and privileges; but He is
   their Master still, and they under His table; and when He breaks the
   bread there is enough and to spare for them - even under the table they
   eat of the children's crumbs.

   But in so saying she was no longer under the table,' but had sat down
   at the table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and was partaker of the
   children's bread. He was no longer to her the Jewish Messiah, but truly
   the Son of David.' She now understood what she prayed, and she was a
   daughter of Abraham. And what had taught her all this was faith in His
   Person and Work, as not only just enough for the Jews, but enough and
   to spare for all - children at the table and dogs under it; that in and
   with Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and David, all nations were blessed in
   Israel's King and Messiah. And so it was, that the Lord said it: O
   woman, great is thy faith: be it done unto thee even as thou wilt.' Or,
   as St. Mark puts it, not quoting the very sound of the Lord's words,
   but their impression upon Peter: For this saying go thy way; the devil
   is gone out of thy daughter.' [3496] And her daughter was healed from
   that hour.' [3497] And she went away unto her house, and found her
   daughter prostrate [indeed] upon the bed, and [but] the demon gone
   out.'

   To us there is in this history even more than the solemn interest of
   Christ's compassion and mighty Messianic working, or the lessons of His
   teaching. We view it in connection with the scenes of the previous few
   days, and see how thoroughly it accords with them in spirit, thus
   recognising the deep internal unity of Christ's Words and Works, where
   least, perhaps, we might have looked for such harmony. And again we
   view it in its deeper bearing upon, and lessons to, all times. To how
   many, not only of all nations and conditions, but in all states of
   heart and mind, nay, in the very lowest depths of conscious guilt and
   alienation from God, must this have brought unspeakable comfort, the
   comfort of truth, and the comfort of His Teaching. Be it so, an
   outcast, dog;' not at the table, but under the table. Still we are at
   His Feet; it is our Master's Table; He is our Master; and, as He breaks
   the children's bread, it is of necessity that the children's crumbs'
   fall to us, enough, quite enough, and to spare. Never can we be outside
   His reach, nor of that of His gracious care, and of sufficient
   provision to eternal life.

   Yet this lesson also must we learn, that as heathens' we may not call
   on Him as David's Son,' till we know why we so call Him. If there can
   be no despair, no being cast out by Him, no absolute distance that
   hopelessly separates from His Person and Provision, there must be no
   presumption, no forgetfulness of the right relation, no expectancy of
   magic-miracles, no viewing of Christ as a Jewish Messiah. We must learn
   it, and painfully, first by His silence, then by this, that He is only
   sent to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, what we are and where we
   are - that we may be prepared for the grace of God and the gift of
   grace. All men - Jews and Gentiles, children' and dogs' - are as before
   Christ and God equally undeserving and equally sinners, but those who
   have fallen deep can only learn that they are sinners by learning that
   they are great sinners, and will only taste of the children's bread
   when they have felt, Yea, Lord,' for even the dogs' under the table eat
   of the children's crumbs,' which fall from their Master's table.'
     __________________________________________________________________

   [3482] Jos. War iii. 3. 1.

   [3483] St. Matt. xv. 21.

   [3484] So correctly rendered.

   [3485] Or, the Passover-eve may have been Monday evening.

   [3486] St. Matt. xv. 23.

   [3487] St. Mark vii. 24, 25.

   [3488] Ezra ix. 1.

   [3489] St. Mark vii. 25.

   [3490] Comp. Cannon Westcott, Introduction to the Study of the Gospels,
   Appendix C.

   [3491] This view is advocated by Dean Plumptre with remarkable beauty,
   tenderness, and reverence. It is also that of Meyer and of Ewald. The
   latter remarks, that our Lord showed twofold greatness: First, in his
   calm limitation to His special mission, and then in His equally calm
   overstepping of it, when a higher ground for so doing appeared.

   [3492] The term means little dogs,' or house - dogs.'

   [3493] Midr. on Ps. iv. 8; Meg. 7 b.

   [3494] Many passages might be quoted either similar, or based on this
   view of Gentiles.

   [3495] Rev. xxii. 15.

   [3496] Canon Cook (Speaker's Comm. on St. Mark vii. 26) regards this as
   one of the very few instances in which our Lord's words really differ
   in the two accounts.' With all deference, I venture to think it is not
   so, but that St. Mark gives what St. Peter had received as the
   impression of Christ's words on his mind.

   [3497] St. Matt. xv. 28.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XXXIV.
A GROUP OF MIRACLES AMONG A SEMI-HEATHEN POPULATION

   (St. Matt. xv. 29-31; St. Mark vii 31-37; St. Mark viii. 22-26; St.
   Matt. xi. 27-31.)

   If even the brief stay of Jesus in that friendly Jewish home by the
   borders of Tyre could not remain unknown, the fame of the healing of
   the Syro-Phoenician maiden would soon have rendered impossible that
   privacy and retirement, which had been the chief object of His leaving
   Capernaum. Accordingly, when the two Paschal days were ended, He
   resumed His journey, extending it far beyond any previously undertaken,
   perhaps beyond what had been originally intended. The borders of
   Palestine proper, though not of what the Rabbis reckoned as belonging
   to it, [3498] were passed. Making a long circuit through the territory
   of Sidon, [3499] He descended - probably through one of the passes of
   the Hermon range - into the country of the Tetrarch Philip. Thence He
   continued through the midst of the borders of Decapolis,' till He once
   more reached the eastern, or south-eastern, shore of the Lake of
   Galilee. It will be remembered that the Decapolis, or confederacy of
   the Ten Cities,' [3500]   was wedged in between the Tetrarchies of
   Philip and Antipas. It embraced ten cities, although that was not
   always their number, and their names are variously enumerated. Of these
   cities Hippos, on the southeastern shore of the Lake, was the most
   northern, and Philadelphia, the ancient Rabbath-Ammon, the most
   southern. Scythopolis, the ancient Beth-Shean, with its district, was
   the only one of them on the western bank of the Jordan. This extensive
   Ten Cities' district was essentially heathen territory. Their ancient
   monuments show, in which of them Zeus, Astarte, and Athene, or else
   Artemis, Hercules, Dionysos, Demeter, or other Grecian divinities, were
   worshipped. [3501] Their political constitution was that of the free
   Greek cities. They were subject only to the Governor of Syria, and
   formed part of Coele-Syria, in contradistinction to Syro-Phoenicia.
   Their privileges dated from the time of Pompey, from which also they
   afterwards reckoned their era.

   It is important to keep in view that, although Jesus was now within the
   territory of ancient Israel, the district and all the surroundings were
   essentially heathen, although in closest proximity to, and
   intermingling with, that which was purely Jewish. St. Matthew [3502]
   gives only a general description of Christ's activity there, concluding
   with a notice of the impression produced on those who witnessed His
   mighty deeds, as leading them to glorify the God of Israel.' This, of
   course, confirms the impression that the scene is laid among a
   population chiefly heathen, and agrees with the more minute notice of
   the locality in the Gospel of St. Mark. One special instance of
   miraculous healing is recorded in the latter, not only from its
   intrinsic interest, but perhaps, also, as in some respects typical.

   1. Among those brought to Him was one deaf, whose speech had, probably
   in consequence of this, been so affected as practically to deprive him
   of its power. [3503] This circumstance, and that he is not spoken of as
   so afflicted from his birth, leads us to infer that the affection was -
   as not unfrequently - the result of disease, and not congenital.
   Remembering, that alike the subject of the miracle and they who brought
   him were heathens, but in constant and close contact with Jews, what
   follows is vividly true to life. The entreaty to lay His Hand upon him'
   was heathen, and yet semi-Jewish also. Quite peculiar it is, when the
   Lord took him aside from the multitude; and again that, in healing him,
   He spat,' applying it directly to the diseased organ. We read of the
   direct application of saliva only here and in the healing of the blind
   man at Bethsaida. [3504] [3505] We are disposed to regard this as
   peculiar to the healing of Gentiles. Peculiar, also, is the term
   expressive of burden on the mind, when, looking up to heaven, He
   sighed.' [3506] Peculiar, also, is the thrusting' [3507] of His Fingers
   into the man's ears, and the touch of his tongue. Only the upward look
   to Heaven and the command Ephphatha' - be opened' - seem the same as in
   His every day wonders of healing. But we mark that all here seems much
   more elaborate than in Israel. The reason of this must, of course, be
   sought in the moral condition of the person healed. Certain
   characteristics about the action of the Lord may, perhaps, help us to
   understand it better. There is an accumulation of means, yet each and
   all inadequate to effect the purpose, but all connected with His
   Person. This elaborate use of such means would banish the idea of
   magic; it would arouse the attention, and fix it upon Christ, as using
   these means, which were all connected with His own person; while,
   lastly, the sighing, and the word of absolute command, would all have
   here their special significance.

   Let us try to realize the scene. They have heard of Him as the
   wonder-worker, these heathens in the land so near to, and yet so far
   from, Israel; and they have brought to Him the lame, blind, dumb,
   maimed, [3508] and many others,' and laid them at His Feet. Oh, what
   wonder! All disease vanishes in presence of Heaven's Own Life
   Incarnate. Tongues long weighted are loosed, limbs maimed or bent by
   disease [3509] are restored to health, the lame are stretched straight;
   the film of disease and the paralysis of nerve-impotence pass from eyes
   long insensible to the light. It is a new era - Israel conquers the
   heathen world, not by force, but by love; not by outward means, but by
   the manifestation of life-power from above. Truly, this is the
   Messianic conquest and reign: and they glorified the God of Israel.'

   From amongst this mass of misery we single out and follow one, [3510]
   whom the Saviour takes aside, that it may not merely be the breath of
   heaven's spring passing over them all, that wooeth him to new life, but
   that He may touch and handle him, and so give health to soul and body.
   The man is to be alone with Christ and the disciples. It is not magic;
   means are used, and such as might not seem wholly strange to the man.
   And quite a number of means! He thrust His Fingers into his deaf ears,
   as if to make a way for the sound: He spat on his tongue, using a means
   of healing accepted in popular opinion of Jew and Gentile; [3511]
   [3512] He touched his tongue. Each act seemed a fresh incitement to his
   faith - and all connected itself with the Person of Christ. As yet
   there was not breath of life in it all. But when the man's eyes
   followed those of the Saviour to heaven, he would understand whence He
   expected, whence came to Him the power - Who had sent Him, and Whose He
   was. And as he followed the movement of Christ's lips, as he groaned
   under the felt burden He had come to remove, the sufferer would look up
   expectant. Once more the Saviour's lips parted to speak the word of
   command: Be opened' [3513] - and straightway the gladsome sound would
   pass into his hearing,' [3514] and the bond that seemed to have held
   his tongue was loosed. He was in a new world, into which He had put him
   that had spoken that one Word; He, Who had been burdened under the load
   which He had lifted up to His Father; to Whom all the means that had
   been used had pointed, and with Whose Person they had been connected.

   It was in vain to enjoin silence. Wider and wider spread the unbidden
   fame, till it was caught up in this one hymn of praise, which has
   remained to all time the jubilee of our experience of Christ as the
   Divine Healer: He hath done all things well, He maketh even the deaf to
   hear, and the dumb to speak.' This Jewish word, Ephphatha, spoken to
   the Gentile Church by Him, Who, looking up to heaven, sighed under the
   burden, even while He uplifted it, has opened the hearing and loosed
   the bond of speech. Most significantly was it spoken in the language of
   the Jews; and this also does it teach, that Jesus must always have
   spoken the Jews' language. For, if ever, to a Grecian in Grecian
   territory would He have spoken in Greek, not in the Jews' language, if
   the former and not the latter had been that of which He made use in His
   Words and Working.

   2. Another miracle is recorded by St. Mark, [3515] as wrought by Jesus
   in these parts, and, as we infer, on a heathen. [3516] All the
   circumstances are kindred to those just related. It was in
   Bethsaida-Julias, that one blind was brought unto Him, with the
   entreaty that He would touch him, - just as in the case of the deaf and
   dumb. Here, also, the Saviour took him aside - led him out of the
   village' - and spat on his eyes, and put His Hands upon him.' We mark
   not only the similarity of the means employed, but the same, and even
   greater elaborateness in the use of them, since a twofold touch is
   recorded before the man saw clearly. [3517] On any theory - even that
   which would regard the Gospel-narratives as spurious - this trait must
   have been intended to mark a special purpose, since this is the only
   instance in which a miraculous cure was performed gradually, and not at
   once and completely. So far as we can judge, the object was, by a
   gradual process of healing, to disabuse the man of any idea of magical
   cure, while at the same time the process of healing again markedly
   centered in the Person of Jesus. With this also agrees (as in the case
   of the deaf and dumb) the use of spittle in the healing. We may here
   recall, that the use of saliva was a well-known Jewish remedy for
   affections of the eyes. [3518] It was thus that the celebrated Rabbi
   Meir relieved one of his fair hearers, when her husband, in his anger
   at her long detention by the Rabbi's sermons, had ordered her to spit
   in the preacher's face. Pretending to suffer from his eyes, the Rabbi
   contrived that the woman publicly spat in his eyes, thus enabling her
   to obey her husband's command. [3519] The anecdote at least proves,
   that the application of saliva was popularly regarded as a remedy for
   affections of the eyes.

   Thus in this instance also, as in that of the deaf and dumb, there was
   the use of means, Jewish means, means manifestly insufficient (since
   their first application was only partially successful), and a
   multiplication of means - yet all centering in, and proceeding from,
   His Person. As further analogies between the two, we mark that the
   blindness does not seem to have been congenital, [3520] but the
   consequence of disease, and that silence was enjoined after the
   healing. [3521] Lastly, the confusedness of his sight, when first
   restored to him, surely conveyed, not only to him but to us all, both a
   spiritual lesson and a spiritual warning.

   3. Yet a third miracle of healing requires to be here considered,
   although related by St. Matthew in quite another connection. [3522] But
   we have learned enough of the structure of the First Gospel to know,
   that its arrangement is determined by the plan of the writer rather
   than by the chronological succession of events. [3523] The manner in
   which the Lord healed the two blind men, the injunction of silence, and
   the notice that none the less they spread His fame in all that land,
   [3524] seem to imply that He was not on the ordinary scene of His
   labours in Galilee. Nor can we fail to mark an internal analogy between
   this and the other two miracles enacted amidst a chiefly Grecian
   population. And, strange though it may sound, the cry with which the
   two blind men who sought His help followed Him, Son of David, have
   mercy on us,' comes, as might be expected, more frequently from Gentile
   than from Jewish lips. It was, of course, pre-eminently the Jewish
   designation of the Messiah, the basis of all Jewish thought of Him.
   But, perhaps on that very ground, it would express in Israel rather the
   homage of popular conviction, than, as in this case, the cry for help
   in bodily disease. Besides, Jesus had not as yet been hailed as the
   Messiah, except by His most intimate disciples; and, even by them,
   chiefly in the joy of their highest spiritual attainments. He was the
   Rabbi, Teacher, Wonder-worker, Son of Man, even Son of God; but the
   idea of the Davidic Kingdom as implying spiritual and Divine, not
   outwardly royal rule, lay as yet on the utmost edge of the horizon,
   covered by the golden mist of the Sun of Righteousness in His rising.
   On the other hand, we can understand, how to Gentiles, who resided in
   Palestine, the Messiah of Israel would chiefly stand out as the Son of
   David.' It was the most ready, and, at the same time, the most
   universal, form in which the great Jewish hope could be viewed by them.
   It presented to their minds the most marked contrast to Israel's
   present fallen state, and it recalled the Golden Age of Israel's past,
   and that, as only the symbol of a far wider and more glorious reign,
   the fulfilment of what to David had only been promises. [3525]

   Peculiar to this history is the testing question of Christ, whether
   they really believed what their petition implied, that He was able to
   restore their sight; and, again, His stern, almost passionate,
   insistence [3526] on their silence as to the mode of their cure. Only
   on one other occasion do we read of the same insistence. It is, when
   the leper had expressed the same absolute faith in Christ's ability to
   heal if He willed it, and Jesus had, as in the case of those two blind
   men, conferred the benefit by the touch of His Hand. [3527] In both
   these cases, it is remarkable that, along with strongest faith of those
   who came to Him, there was rather an implied than an expressed petition
   on their part. The leper who knelt before Him only said: Lord, if Thou
   wilt, Thou canst make me clean;' and the two blind men: Have mercy on
   us, Thou Son of David.' Thus it is the highest and most realising
   faith, which is most absolute in its trust and most reticent as regards
   the details of its request.

   But as regards the two blind men (and the healed leper also), it is
   almost impossible not to connect Christ's peculiar insistence on their
   silence with their advanced faith. They had owned Jesus as the Son of
   David,' and that, not in the Judaic sense (as by the Syro-Phoenician
   woman [3528] ), but as able to do all things, even to open by His touch
   the eyes of the blind. And it had been done to them, as it always is -
   according to their faith. But a profession of faith so wide-reaching as
   theirs, and sealed by the attainment of what it sought, yet scarcely
   dared to ask, must not be publicly proclaimed. It would, and in point
   of fact did, bring to Him crowds which, unable spiritually to
   understand the meaning of such a confession, would only embarrass and
   hinder, and whose presence and homage would have to be avoided as much,
   if not more, than that of open enemies. [3529] For confession of the
   mouth must ever be the outcome of heart-belief, and the acclamations of
   an excited Jewish crowd were as incongruous to the real Character of
   the Christ, and as obstructive to the progress of His Kingdom, as is
   the outward homage of a world which has not heart-belief in His Power,
   nor heart-experience of His ability and willingness to cleanse the
   leper and to open the eyes of the blind. Yet the leprosy of Israel and
   the blindness of the Gentile world are equally removed by the touch of
   His Hand at the cry of faith.

   The question has been needlessly discussed, [3530] whether they were to
   praise or blame, who, despite the Saviour's words, spread His fame. We
   scarcely know what, or how much, they disobeyed. They could not but
   speak of His Person; and theirs was, perhaps, not yet that higher
   silence which is content simply to sit at His Feet.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [3498] For the Rabbinic views of the boundaries of Palestine see
   Sketches of Jewish Social Life,' ch. ii.

   [3499] The correct reading of St. Mark vii. 31, is through Sidon.' By
   the latter I do not understand the town of that name. which would have
   been quite outside the Saviour's route, but (with Ewald and Lange) the
   territory of Sidon.

   [3500] The fullest notice of the Ten Cities' is that of Caspari,
   Chronolog. Geogr. Einl. pp. 83-91, with which compare Menke's
   Bibel-Atlas, Map V.

   [3501] Comp. Schürer, pp. 382, 383.

   [3502] St. Matt xv. 29-31.

   [3503] mogillos or mongillos does not mean one absolutely dumb. It is
   literally: difficulter loquens. The Rabbinic designation of such a
   person would have been Cheresh (Ter. i. 2) although different opinions
   obtain as to whether the term includes impediment of speech (comp. Meg.
   ii. 4; Gitt. 71 a).

   [3504] St. Mark viii. 23.

   [3505] In St. John ix. 6 it is really application of clay.

   [3506] stenzo occurs only here in the Gospels. Otherwise it occurs in
   Rom. viii. 23; 2 Cor. v. 2, 4; Hebr. xiii. 17; James v. 9; the
   substantive in Acts vii. 34; Rom, viii. 26.

   [3507] So literally.

   [3508] Kulls means here incurvatus, and not as in ix. 43 mutilatus.

   [3509] Kulls means here incurvatus, and not as in ix. 43 mutilatus.

   [3510] St. Mark vii. 31-37.

   [3511] Shabb. 108 b; Pliny, H. N. xxviii. 7; Suet. Vesp. 7.

   [3512] Wünsche (ad. loc.) is guilty of serious misapprehension when he
   says that the Talmud condemns to eternal punishment those who employ
   this mode of healing. This statement is incorrect. What it condemns is
   the whispering of magical formulas over a wound (Sanh. 90 a), when it
   was the custom of some magicians to spit before (Sanh. 101 a), of
   others after pronouncing the formula (Jer. Sanh. 28 b). There is no
   analogy whatever between this and what our Lord did, and the use of
   saliva for cures is universally recognised by the Rabbis.

   [3513] phphath = {hebrew}

   [3514] So literally, or rather hearings' - in the plural.

   [3515] St. Mark viii. 22-26.

   [3516] Most commentators regard this as the eastern Bethsaida, or
   Bethsaida-Julias. The objection (in the Speaker's Commentary) that the
   text speaks of a village' (vv. 23, 26) is obviated by the circumstance
   that similarly we read immediately afterwards (ver. 27) about the
   villages of Cæsarea Philippi.' Indeed, a knowledge of Jewish law
   enables us to see here a fresh proof of the genuineness of the
   Evangelic narrative. For, according to Meg. 3 b the villages about a
   town were reckoned as belonging to it, while, on the other hand, a town
   which had not among its inhabitants ten Batlanin (persons who devoted
   themselves to the worship and affairs of the Synagogue) was to be
   regarded as a village. The Bethsaida of ver. 22 must refer to the
   district, in one of the hamlets of which the blind man met Jesus. It
   does not appear, that Jesus ever again wrought miracles, either in
   Capernaum or the western Bethsaida, if, indeed, He ever returned to
   that district. Lastly, the scene of that miracle must have been the
   eastern Bethsaida (Julias), since immediately afterwards the
   continuance of His journey to Cæsarea Philippi is related without any
   notice of crossing the Lake.

   [3517] The better reading of the words is given in the Revised Version.

   [3518] Jer. Shabb. xiv. 4; Baba B. 126 b.

   [3519] Jer. Sot. 16 d, about the middle.

   [3520] Comp. St. Mark viii. 24.

   [3521] ver. 26.

   [3522] St. Matt. ix. 27-31.

   [3523] Thus, the healing recorded immediately after this history, in
   St. Matt. ix. 32-35, belongs evidently to a later period. Comp. St.
   Luke xi. 14.

   [3524] I admit that especially the latter argument is inconclusive, but
   I appeal to the general context and the setting of this history. It is
   impossible to regard St. Matt. ix. as a chronological record of events.

   [3525] He is addressed as Son of David,' in this passage, by the
   Syro-Phoenician woman (St. Matt. xv. 22), and by the blind men near
   Jericho (St. Matt. xx. 30, 31; St. Mark x. 47, 48; St. Luke xviii, 38,
   39), and proclaimed as such by the people in St. Matt. xii. 23; xxi. 9,
   15.

   [3526] mbrimomai - the word occurs in that sense only here and in St.
   Mark i. 43; otherwise also in St. Mark xiv. 5, and in St. John xi. 33,
   38.

   [3527] St. Mark i. 40, 41.

   [3528] It should be borne in mind, that the country, surroundings, &c.,
   place these men in a totally different category from the
   Syro-Phoenician woman.

   [3529] St. Mark i. 45.

   [3530] Roman Catholic writers mostly praise, while Protestants blame,
   their conduct.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XXXV.
THE TWO SABBATH-CONTROVERSIES - THE PLUCKING OF THE EARS OF CORN BY THE
DISCIPLES, AND THE HEALING OF THE MAN WITH THE WITHERED HAND

   (St. Matt. xii. 1-21; St. Mark ii. 23-iii. 6; St. Luke vi. 1-11.)

   IN grouping together the three miracles of healing described in the
   last chapter, we do not wish to convey that it is certain they had
   taken place in precisely that order. Nor do we feel sure, that they
   preceded what is about to be related. In the absence of exact data, the
   succession of events and their location must be matter of combination.
   From their position in the Evangelic narratives, and the manner in
   which all concerned speak and act, we inferred, that they took place at
   that particular period and east of the Jordan, in the Decapolis or else
   in the territory of Philip. They differ from the events about to be
   related by the absence of the Jerusalem Scribes, who hung on the
   footsteps of Jesus. While the Saviour tarried on the borders of Tyre,
   and thence passed through the territory of Sidon into the Decapolis and
   to the southern and eastern shores of the Lake of Galilee, they were in
   Jerusalem at the Passover. But after the two festive days, which would
   require their attendance in the Temple, they seem to have returned to
   their hateful task. It would not be difficult for them to discover the
   scene of such mighty works as His. Accordingly, we now find them once
   more confronting Christ. And the events about to be related are
   chronologically distinguished from those that had preceded, by this
   presence and opposition of the Pharisaic party. The contest now becomes
   more decided and sharp, and we are rapidly nearing the period when He,
   Who had hitherto been chiefly preaching the Kingdom, and healing body
   and soul, will, through the hostility of the leaders of Israel, enter
   on the second, or prevailingly negative stage of His Work, in which,
   according to the prophetic description, they compassed' Him about like
   bees,' but are quenched as the fire of thorns.'

   Where fundamental principles were so directly contrary, the occasion
   for conflict could not be long wanting. Indeed, all that Jesus taught
   must have seemed to these Pharisees strangely un-Jewish in cast and
   direction, even if not in form and words. But chiefly would this be the
   case in regard to that on which, of all else, the Pharisees laid most
   stress, the observance of the Sabbath. On no other subject is Rabbinic
   teaching more painfully minute and more manifestly incongruous to its
   professed object. For, if we rightly apprehend what underlay the
   complicated and intolerably burdensome laws and rules of Pharisaic
   Sabbath-observance, it was to secure, negatively, absolute rest from
   all labour, and, positively, to make the Sabbath a delight. The Mishnah
   includes Sabbath-desecration among those most heinous crimes for which
   a man was to be stoned. [3531] This, then, was their first care: by a
   series of complicated ordinances to make a breach of the Sabbath-rest
   impossible. How far this was carried, we shall presently see. The next
   object was, in a similarly external manner, to make the Sabbath a
   delight. A special Sabbath dress, the best that could be procured; the
   choicest food, even though a man had to work for it all the week, or
   public charity were to supply it [3532] - such were some of the means
   by which the day was to be honoured and men to find pleasure therein.
   The strangest stories are told, how, by the purchase of the most
   expensive dishes, the pious poor had gained unspeakable merit, and
   obtained, even on earth, Heaven's manifest reward. And yet, by the side
   of these and similar strange and sad misdirections of piety, we come
   also upon that which is touching, beautiful, and even spiritual. On the
   Sabbath there must be no mourning, for to the Sabbath applies this
   saying: [3533] The blessing of the Lord, it maketh rich, and He addeth
   no sorrow with it.' Quite alone was the Sabbath among the measures of
   time. Every other day had been paired with its fellow: not so the
   Sabbath. And so any festival, even the Day of Atonement, might be
   transferred to another day: not so the observance of the Sabbath. Nay,
   when the Sabbath complained before God, that of all days it alone stood
   solitary, God had wedded it to Israel; and this holy union God had
   bidden His people remember,' [3534] when it stood before the Mount.
   Even the tortures of Gehenna were intermitted on that holy, happy day.
   [3535]

   The terribly exaggerated views on the Sabbath entertained by the
   Rabbis, and the endless burdensome rules with which they encumbered
   everything connected with its sanctity, are fully set forth in another
   place. [3536] The Jewish Law, as there summarised, sufficiently
   explains the controversies in which the Pharisaic party now engaged
   with Jesus. Of these the first was when, going through the cornfields
   on the Sabbath, His disciples began to pluck and eat the ears of corn.
   Not, indeed, that this was the first Sabbath-controversy forced upon
   Christ. [3537] But it was the first time that Jesus allowed, and
   afterwards Himself did, in presence of the Pharisees, what was contrary
   to Jewish notions, and that, in express and unmistakable terms, He
   vindicated His position in regard to the Sabbath. This also indicates
   that we have now reached a further stage in the history of our Lord's
   teaching.

   This, however, is not the only reason for placing this event so late in
   the personal history of Christ. St. Matthew inserts it at a different
   period from the other two Synoptists; and although St. Mark and St.
   Luke introduce it amidst the same surroundings, the connection, in
   which it is told in all the three Gospels, shows that it is placed out
   of the historical order, with the view of grouping together what would
   exhibit Christ's relation to the Pharisees and their teaching.
   Accordingly, this first Sabbath-controversy is immediately followed by
   that connected with the healing of the man with the withered hand. From
   St. Matthew and St. Mark it might, indeed, appear as if this had
   occurred on the same day as the plucking of the ears of corn, but St.
   Luke corrects any possible misunderstanding, by telling us that it
   happened on another Sabbath' - perhaps that following the walk through
   the cornfields.

   Dismissing the idea of inferring the precise time of these two events
   from their place in the Evangelic record, we have not much difficulty
   in finding the needful historical data for our present inquiry. The
   first and most obvious is, that the harvest was still standing -
   whether that of barley or of wheat. The former began immediately after
   the Passover, the latter after the Feast of Pentecost; the presentation
   of the wave-omer of barley making the beginning of the one, that of the
   two wave-loaves that of the other. [3538] Here another historical
   notice comes to our aid. St. Luke describes the Sabbath of this
   occurrence as the second-first' - an expression so peculiar that it
   cannot be regarded as an interpolation, [3539] but as designedly chosen
   by the Evangelist to indicate something well understood in Palestine at
   the time. Bearing in mind the limited number of Sabbaths between the
   commencement of the barley and the end of the wheat-harvest, our
   inquiry is here much narrowed. In Rabbinic writings the term
   second-first' is not applied to any Sabbath. But we know that the fifty
   days between the Feast of Passover and that of Pentecost were counted
   from the presentation of the wave-omer on the Second Paschal Day, at
   the first, second, third day, &c., after the Omer.' Thus the
   second-first' Sabbath might be either the first Sabbath after the
   second day,' which was that of the presentation of the Omer, or else
   the second Sabbath after this first day of reckoning, or Sephirah,' as
   it was called ({hebrew}). To us the first of these dates seems most in
   accord with the manner in which St. Luke would describe to Gentile
   readers the Sabbath which was the first after the second,' or,
   Sephirah-day. [3540]

   Assuming, then, that it was probably the first - possibly, the second -
   Sabbath after the reckoning,' or second Paschal Day, on which the
   disciples plucked the ears of corn, we have still to ascertain whether
   it was in the first or second Passover of Christ's Ministry. [3541] The
   reasons against placing it between the first Passover and Pentecost are
   of the strongest character. Not to speak of the circumstance that such
   advanced teaching on the part of Christ, and such advanced knowledge on
   the part of His disciples, indicate a later period, our Lord did not
   call His twelve Apostles till long after the Feast of Pentecost, viz.
   after His return from the so-called Unknown Feast,' [3542] which, as
   shown in another place, [3543] must have been either that of
   Wood-Gathering,' in the end of the summer, or else New Year's Day, in
   the beginning of autumn. Thus, as by the disciples' we must in this
   connection understand, in the first place, the Apostles,' the event
   could not have occurred between the first Passover and Pentecost of the
   Lord's Ministry.

   The same result is reached by another process of reasoning. After the
   first Passover [3544] our Lord, with such of His disciples as had then
   gathered to Him, tarried for some time - no doubt for several weeks -
   in Judæa. [3545] The wheat was ripe for harvesting, when he passed
   through Samaria. [3546] And, on His return to Galilee, His disciples
   seem to have gone back to their homes and occupations, since it was
   some time afterwards when even His most intimate disciples - Peter,
   Andrew, James, and John - were called a second time. [3547]
   Chronologically, therefore, there is no room for this event between the
   first Passover and Pentecost. [3548] Lastly, we have here to bear in
   mind, that, on His first appearance in Galilee, the Pharisees had not
   yet taken up this position of determined hostility to Him. On the other
   hand, all agrees with the circumstance, that the active hostility of
   the Pharisees and Christ's separation from the ordinances of the
   Synagogue commenced with His visit to Jerusalem in the early autumn of
   that year. [3549] If, therefore, we have to place the plucking of the
   ears of corn after the Feast recorded in St. John v., as can scarcely
   be doubted, it must have taken place, not between the first, but
   between the Second Passover and Pentecost of Christ's Public Ministry.

   Another point deserves notice. The different setting' (chronologically
   speaking) in which the three Gospels present the event about to be
   related, illustrates that the object of the Evangelists was to present
   the events in the History of the Christ in their succession, not of
   time, but of bearing upon final results. This, because they do not
   attempt a Biography of Jesus, which, from their point of view, would
   have been almost blasphemy, but a History of the Kingdom which He
   brought; and because they write it, so to speak, not by adjectives
   (expressive of qualities), nor adverbially, [3550] but by substantives.
   Lastly, it will be noted that the three Evangelists relate the event
   about to be considered (as so many others), not, indeed, with
   variations, [3551] but with differences of detail, showing the
   independence of their narratives, which, as we shall see, really
   supplement each other.

   We are now in a position to examine the narrative itself. It was on the
   Sabbath after the Second Paschal Day that Christ and His disciples
   passed [3552] - probably by a field-path - through cornfields, when His
   disciples, being hungry, [3553] as they went, [3554] plucked ears of
   corn and ate them, having rubbed off the husks in their hands. [3555]
   On any ordinary day this would have been lawful, [3556] but on the
   Sabbath it involved, according to Rabbinic statutes, at least two sins.
   For, according to the Talmud, what was really one labour, would, if
   made up of several acts, each of them forbidden, amount to several acts
   of labour, each involving sin, punishment, and a sin-offering. [3557]
   [3558] This so-called division' of labour applied only to infringement
   of the Sabbath-rest - not of that of feast-days. [3559] Now in this
   case there were at least two such acts involved: that of plucking the
   ears of corn, ranged under the sin of reaping, and that of rubbing
   them, which might be ranged under sifting in a sieve, threshing,
   sifting out fruit, grinding, or fanning. The following Talmudic passage
   bears on this: In case a woman rolls wheat to remove the husks, it is
   considered as sifting; if she rubs the heads of wheat, it is regarded
   as threshing; if she cleans off the side-adherences, it is sifting out
   fruit; if she bruises the ears, it is grinding; if she throws them up
   in her hand, it is winnowing.' [3560] One instance will suffice to show
   the externalism of all these ordinances. If a man wished to move a
   sheaf on his field, which of course implied labour, he had only to lay
   upon it a spoon that was in his common use, when, in order to remove
   the spoon, he might also remove the sheaf on which it lay! [3561] And
   yet it was forbidden to stop with a little wax the hole in a cask by
   which the fluid was running out, [3562] or to wipe a wound!

   Holding views like these, the Pharisees, who witnessed the conduct of
   the disciples, would naturally harshly condemn, what they must have
   regarded as gross desecration of the Sabbath. Yet it was clearly not a
   breach of the Biblical, but of the Rabbinic Law. Not only to show them
   their error, but to lay down principles which would for ever apply to
   this difficult question, was the object of Christ's reply. Unlike the
   others of the Ten Commandments, the Sabbath Law has in it two elements;
   the moral and the ceremonial: the eternal, and that which is subject to
   time and place; the inward and spiritual, and the outward (the one as
   the mode of realizing the other). In their distinction and separation
   lies the difficulty of the subject. In its spiritual and eternal
   element, the Sabbath Law embodied the two thoughts of rest for worship,
   and worship which pointed to rest. The keeping of the seventh day, and
   the Jewish mode of its observance, were the temporal and outward form
   in which these eternal principles were presented. Even Rabbinism, in
   some measure, perceived this. It was a principle, that danger to life
   superseded the Sabbath Law, [3563] and indeed all other obligations.
   [3564] Among the curious Scriptural and other arguments by which this
   principle was supported, that which probably would most appeal to
   common sense was derived from Lev. xviii. 5. It was argued, that a man
   was to keep the commandments that he might live, certainly not, that by
   so doing he might die. [3565] In other words, the outward mode of
   observation was subordinate to the object of the observance. Yet this
   other and kindred principle did Rabbinism lay down, that every positive
   commandment superseded the Sabbath-rest. This was the ultimate
   vindication of work in the Temple, although certainly not its
   explanation. Lastly, we should in this connection, include this
   important canon, laid down by the Rabbis: a single Rabbinic prohibition
   is not to be heeded, where a graver matter is in question.' [3566]

   All these points must be kept in view for the proper understanding of
   the words of Christ to the Scribes. For, while going far beyond the
   times and notions of His questioners, His reasoning must have been
   within their comprehension. Hence the first argument of our Lord, as
   recorded by all the Synoptists, was taken from Biblical History. When,
   on his flight from Saul, David had, when an hungered,' eaten of the
   shewbread, and given it to his followers, [3567] although, by the
   letter of the Levitical Law, [3568] it was only to be eaten by the
   priests, Jewish tradition vindicated his conduct on the plea that
   danger to life' superseded the Sabbath-Law, and hence, all laws
   connected with it, [3569] while, to show David's zeal for the
   Sabbath-Law, the legend was added, that he had reproved the priests of
   Nob, who had been baking the shewbread on the Sabbath. [3570] To the
   first argument of Christ, St. Matthew adds this as His second, that the
   priests, in their services in the Temple, necessarily broke the
   Sabbath-Law without thereby incurring guilt. It is curious, that the
   Talmud discusses this very point, and that, by way of illustration, it
   introduces an argument from Lev. xxii. 10: There shall no stranger eat
   of things consecrated.' This, of course, embodies the principle
   underlying the prohibition of the shewbread to all who were not
   priests. [3571] Without entering further on it, the discussion at least
   shows, that the Rabbis were by no means clear on the rationale of
   Sabbath-work in the Temple.

   In truth, the reason why David was blameless in eating the shewbread
   was the same as that which made the Sabbath-labour of the priests
   lawful. The Sabbath-Law was not one merely of rest, but of rest for
   worship. The Service of the Lord was the object in view. The priests
   worked on the Sabbath, because this service was the object of the
   Sabbath; and David was allowed to eat of the shewbread, not because
   there was danger to life from starvation, but because he pleaded that
   he was on the service of the Lord and needed this provision. The
   disciples, when following the Lord, were similarly on the service of
   the Lord; ministering to Him was more than ministering in the Temple,
   for He was greater than the Temple. If the Pharisees had believed this,
   they would not have questioned their conduct, nor in so doing have
   themselves infringed that higher Law which enjoined mercy, not
   sacrifice.

   To this St. Mark adds as corollary: The Sabbath was made for man, and
   not man for the Sabbath.' It is remarkable, that a similar argument is
   used by the Rabbis. When insisting that the Sabbath Law should be set
   aside to avoid danger to life, it is urged: the Sabbath is handed over
   to you; not, ye are handed over to the Sabbath.' [3572] Lastly, the
   three Evangelists record this as the final outcome of His teaching on
   this subject, that the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath also.' The
   Service of God, and the Service of the Temple, by universal consent
   superseded the Sabbath-Law. But Christ was greater than the Temple, and
   His Service more truly that of God, and higher than that of the outward
   Temple, and the Sabbath was intended for man, to serve God: therefore
   Christ and His Service were superior to the Sabbath-Law. Thus much
   would be intelligible to these Pharisees, although they would not
   receive it, because they believed not on Him as the Sent of God. [3573]

   But to us the words mean more than this. They preach not only that the
   Service of Christ is that of God, but that, even more than in the
   Temple, all of work or of liberty is lawful which this service
   requires. We are free while we are doing anything for Christ; God loves
   mercy, and demands not sacrifice; His sacrifice is the service of
   Christ, in heart, and life, and work. We are not free to do anything we
   please; but we are free to do anything needful or helpful, while we are
   doing any service to Christ. He is the Lord of the Sabbath, Whom we
   serve in and through the Sabbath. And even this is significant, that,
   when designating Himself Lord of the Sabbath, it is as the Son of Man.'
   It shows, that the narrow Judaistic form regarding the day and the
   manner of observance is enlarged into the wider Law, which applies to
   all humanity. Under the New Testament the Sabbath has, as the Church,
   become Catholic, and its Lord is Christ as the Son of Man, to Whom the
   body Catholic offers the acceptable service of heart and life.

   The question as between Christ and the Pharisees was not, however, to
   end here. On another Sabbath' - probably that following - He was in
   their Synagogue. Whether or not the Pharisees had brought the man with
   the withered hand' on purpose, or placed him in a conspicuous position,
   or otherwise raised the question, certain it is that their secret
   object was to commit Christ to some word or deed, which would lay Him
   open to the capital charge of breaking the Sabbath-law. It does not
   appear, whether the man with the withered hand was consciously or
   unconsciously their tool. But in this they judged rightly: that Christ
   would not witness disease without removing it - or, as we might express
   it, that disease could not continue in the Presence of Him, Who was the
   Life. He read their inward thoughts of evil, and yet he proceeded to do
   the good which He purposed. So God, in His majestic greatness, carries
   out the purpose which He has fixed - which we call the law of nature -
   whoever and whatever stand in the way; and so God, in His sovereign
   goodness, adapts it to the good of His creatures, notwithstanding their
   evil thoughts.

   So much unclearness prevails as to the Jewish views about healing on
   the Sabbath, that some connected information on the subject seems
   needful. We have already seen, that in their view only actual danger to
   life warranted a breach of the Sabbath-Law. But this opened a large
   field for discussion. Thus, according to some, disease of the ear,
   [3574] according to some throat-disease, [3575] while, according to
   others, such a disease as angina, [3576] involved danger, and
   superseded the Sabbath-Law. All applications to the outside of the body
   were forbidden on the Sabbath. As regarded internal remedies, such
   substances as were used in health, but had also a remedial effect,
   might be taken [3577] although here also there was a way of evading the
   Law. [3578] A person suffering from toothache might not gargle his
   mouth with vinegar, but he might use an ordinary toothbrush and dip it
   in vinegar. [3579] The Gemara here adds, that gargling was lawful, if
   the substance was afterwards swallowed. It further explains, that
   affections extending from the lips, or else from the throat, inwards,
   may be attended to, being regarded as dangerous. Quite a number of
   these are enumerated, showing, that either the Rabbis were very lax in
   applying their canon about mortal diseases, or else that they reckoned
   in their number not a few which we would not regard as such. [3580]
   External lesions also might be attended to, if they involved danger to
   life. [3581] Similarly, medical aid might be called in, if a person had
   swallowed a piece of glass; a splinter might be removed from the eye,
   and even a thorn from the body. [3582]

   But although the man with the withered hand could not be classed with
   those dangerously ill, it could not have been difficult to silence the
   Rabbis on their own admissions. Clearly, their principle implied, that
   it was lawful on the Sabbath to do that which would save life or
   prevent death. To have taught otherwise, would virtually have involved
   murder. But if so, did it not also, in strictly logical sequence, imply
   this far wider principle, that it must be lawful to do good on the
   Sabbath? For, evidently, the omission of such good would have involved
   the doing of evil. Could this be the proper observance of God's holy
   day? There was no answer to such an argument; St. Mark expressly
   records that they dared not attempt a reply. [3583] On the other hand,
   St. Matthew, while alluding to this terribly telling challenge, [3584]
   records yet another and a personal argument. It seems that Christ
   publicly appealed to them: If any poor man among them, who had one
   sheep, were in danger of losing it through having fallen into a pit,
   would he not lift it out? To be sure, the Rabbinic Law ordered that
   food and drink should be lowered to it, or else that some means should
   be furnished by which it might either be kept up in the pit, or enabled
   to come out of it. [3585] But even the Talmud discusses cases in which
   it was lawful to lift an animal out of a pit on a Sabbath. [3586] There
   could be no doubt, at any rate, that even if the Law was, at the time
   of Christ, as stringent as in the Talmud, a man would have found some
   device, by which to recover the solitary sheep which constituted his
   possession. And was not the life of a human being to be more accounted
   of? Surely, then, on the Sabbath-day it was lawful to do good? Yes - to
   do good, and to neglect it, would have been to do evil. Nay, according
   to their own admission, should not a man, on the Sabbath, save life? or
   should he, by omitting it, kill?

   We can now imagine the scene in that Synagogue. The place is crowded.
   Christ probably occupies a prominent position as leading the prayers or
   teaching: a position whence He can see, and be seen by all. Here,
   eagerly bending forward, are the dark faces of the Pharisees,
   expressive of curiosity, malice, cunning. They are looking round at a
   man whose right hand is withered, [3587] perhaps putting him forward,
   drawing attention to him, loudly whispering, Is it lawful to heal on
   the Sabbath-day?' The Lord takes up the challenge. He bids the man
   stand forth - right in the midst of them, where they might all see and
   hear. By one of those telling appeals, which go straight to the
   conscience, He puts the analogous case of a poor man who was in danger
   of losing his only sheep on the Sabbath: would he not rescue it; and
   was not a man better than a sheep? Nay, did they not themselves enjoin
   a breach of the Sabbath-Law to save human life? Then, must He not do
   so; might He not do good rather than evil?

   They were speechless. But a strange mixture of feeling was in the
   Saviour's heart - strange to us, though it is but what Holy Scripture
   always tells us of the manner in which God views sin and the sinner,
   using terms, which, in their combination, seem grandly incompatible:
   And when He had looked round about on them with anger, being grieved at
   the hardening of their heart.' It was but for a moment, and then, with
   life-giving power, He bade the man stretch forth his hand. Withered it
   was no longer, when the Word had been spoken, and a new sap, a fresh
   life had streamed into it, as, following the Saviour's Eye and Word, he
   slowly stretched it forth. And as He stretched it forth, his hand was
   restored. [3588] The Saviour had broken their Sabbath-Law, and yet He
   had not broken it, for neither by remedy, nor touch, nor outward
   application had He healed him. He had broken the Sabbath-rest, as God
   breaks it, when He sends, or sustains, or restores life, or does good:
   all unseen and unheard, without touch or outward application, by the
   Word of His Power, by the Presence of His Life.

   But who after this will say, that it was Paul who first introduced into
   the Church either the idea that the Sabbath-Law in its Jewish form was
   no longer binding, or this, that the narrow forms of Judaism were burst
   by the new wine of that Kingdom, which is that of the Son of Man?

   They had all seen it, this miracle of almost new creation. As He did
   it, He had been filled with sadness: as they saw it, they were filled
   with madness.' [3589] So their hearts were hardened. They could not
   gainsay, but they went forth and took counsel with the Herodians
   against Him, how they might destroy Him. Presumably, then, He was
   within, or quite close by, the dominions of Herod, east of the Jordan.
   And the Lord withdrew once more, as it seems to us, into Gentile
   territory, probably that of the Decapolis. For, as He went about
   healing all, that needed it, in that great multitude that followed His
   steps, yet enjoining silence on them, this prophecy of Isaiah blazed
   into fulfilment: Behold My Servant, Whom I have chosen, My Beloved, in
   Whom My soul is well-pleased: I will put My Spirit upon Him, and He
   shall declare judgment to the Gentiles. He shall not strive nor cry
   aloud, neither shall any hear His Voice in the streets. A bruised reed
   shall He not break, and smoking flax shall He not quench, till He send
   forth judgment unto victory. And in His Name shall the Gentiles trust.'

   And in His Name shall the Gentiles trust. Far out into the silence of
   those solitary upland hills of the Gentile world did the call, unheard
   and unheeded in Israel, travel. He had other sheep which were not of
   that fold. And down those hills, from the far-off lands, does the sound
   of the bells, as it comes nearer and nearer, tell that those other
   sheep, which are not of this fold, are gathering at His call to the
   Good Shepherd; and through these centuries, still louder and more
   manifold becomes this sound of nearing bells, till they shall all be
   gathered into one: one flock, one fold, one Shepherd.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [3531] Sanh. vii. 4.

   [3532] Peah viii. 7.

   [3533] In Prov. x. 22.

   [3534] Ex. xx. 8.

   [3535] Comp. Ber. R. 11 on Gen. ii. 3.

   [3536] See Appendix XVII: The Ordinances and Law of the Sabbath.

   [3537] Comp. St. John v. 9, 16.

   [3538] Comp. The Temple and its Services,' pp. 222, 226, 230, 231.

   [3539] The great majority of critics are agreed as to its authenticity.

   [3540] The view which I have adopted is that of Scaliger and Lightfoot;
   the alternative one mentioned, that of Delitzsch. In regard to the many
   other explanations proposed, I would lay down this canon: No
   explanation can be satisfactory which rests not on some ascertained
   fact in Jewish life, but where the fact is merely supposed' for the
   sake of the explanation which it would afford. Thus, there is not the
   slightest support in fact for the idea, that the first Sabbath of the
   second month was so called (Wetstein, Speaker's Commentary), or the
   first Sabbath in the second year of a septennial cycle, or the Sabbath
   of the Nisan (the sacred) year, in contradistinction to the Tishri or
   secular year, which began in autumn. Of these and similar
   interpretations it is enough to say, that the underlying fact is
   supposed' for the sake of a supposed' explanation; in other words, they
   embody an hypothesis based on an hypothesis.

   [3541] There were only three Paschal feasts during the public ministry
   of Christ. Any other computation rests on the idea that the Unknown
   Feast was the Passover, or even the Feast of Esther.

   [3542] St. John v.

   [3543] Comp. Appendix XV.

   [3544] St. John ii. 13.

   [3545] St. John iii. 22; v. 1-3.

   [3546] St. John iv. 35.

   [3547] St. Matt. iv. 18-22.

   [3548] Few would be disposed to place St. Matt. xii. before St. Matt.
   iv.

   [3549] St. John v.

   [3550] Adverbs answer to the questions, How, When, Why, Where.

   [3551] Meyer insists that the dn, poien, or more correctly dopoien,
   (St. Mark ii. 23) should be translated literally, that the disciples
   began to make a way by plucking the ears of corn. Accordingly, he
   maintains, that there is an essential difference between the account of
   St. Mark and those of the two other Evangelists, who attribute the
   plucking of the ears to hunger. Canon Cook (Speaker's Commentary, New
   Testament i. p. 216) has to my mind, conclusively shown the
   untenableness of Meyer's contention. He compares the expression of St.
   Mark to the Latin iter facere.' I would suggest the French chemin
   faisant.' Godet points out the absurdity of plucking up ears in order
   to make a way through the corn.

   [3552] In St. Mark also the better reading is diaporeesthai.

   [3553] St. Matthew.

   [3554] St. Mark.

   [3555] St. Luke.

   [3556] Deut xxiii. 25.

   [3557] Shabb. 70 a.

   [3558] Thus (Shabb. 74 b, lines 12, 11 from bottom), if a person were
   to pull out a feather from the wing of a bird, cut off the top, and
   then pluck off the fluff below it would involve three labours and three
   sin-offerings.

   [3559] Macc. 21 b.

   [3560] Jer. Shabb. p. 10 a, lines 28 to 26 from bottom.

   [3561] Shabb. 142 b, line 6 from bottom.

   [3562] Shabb. 146 a.

   [3563] But only where the life of an Israelite, not of a heathen or
   Samaritan, was in danger (Yoma 84 b).

   [3564] Maimonides, Hilkh. Shabb. ii. 1 (Yad haCh. vol. i. part iii. p.
   141 a): The Sabbath is set aside on account of danger to life, as all
   other ordinances (hebrew)'.

   [3565] Jer. Shabb. xiv. 4, pp. 14 d, 15 a.

   [3566] Jer. Shabb. xvi. 1.

   [3567] According to 1 Sam. xxii. 9 Ahimelech (or Ahijah, 1 Sam. xiv. 3)
   was the high Priest. We infer, that Abiathar was conjoined with his
   father in the priesthood. Comp. the Bible-History,' vol. iv. p. 111.

   [3568] Lev. xxiv 5-9.

   [3569] The question discussed in the Talmud is, whether, supposing an
   ordinary Israelite discharged priestly functions on the Sabbath in the
   temple, it would involve two sins: unlawful service and
   Sabbath-desecration; or only one sin, unlawful service.

   [3570] Yalkut ii. par. 130, p. 18 d.

   [3571] Jer. Shabb. ii. 5, p. 5 a.

   [3572] Mechilt. on Ex. xxxi. 13, ed. Weiss, p. 109 b.

   [3573] We may here again state, that Cod. D has this after St. Luke vi.
   4: The same day, having beholden a man working on the Sabbath, He said
   to Him: "Man, if thou knowest what thou dost, blessed are thou: but if
   thou knowest not, thou art accursed and a transgressor of the Law"'
   (Nicholson, Gospel according to the Hebrews, p. 151). It need scarcely
   be said, that the words, as placed in St. Luke, are a spurious
   addition, although as Canon Westcott rightly infers, the saying
   [probably] rests on some real incident' (Introd. to the Study of the
   Gospels, p. 454, note.

   [3574] Debar. R. 10.

   [3575] Yoma viii. 6.

   [3576] Yoma 84 a.

   [3577] Shabb. xiv. 3.

   [3578] Thus, when a Rabbi was consulted, whether a man might on the
   Sabbath take a certain drink which had a purgative effect, he answered:
   If for pleasure it is lawful; if for healing forbidden' (Jer. Shabb. 14
   c).

   [3579] u. s. 4.

   [3580] Thus one of the Rabbis regarded foetor of the breath as possibly
   dangerous (u. s. 14 d).

   [3581] Displacement of the frontal bone, disease of the nerves leading
   from the ear to the upper jaw, an eye starting from its socket, severe
   inflammations, and swelling wounds, are specially mentioned.

   [3582] Comp. Jer. Shabb. 14 d.

   [3583] St. Mark iii. 4.

   [3584] St. Matt. xii. 12.

   [3585] Shabb. 128 b.

   [3586] Shabb. 117 b, about the middle.

   [3587] St. Luke vi. 6.

   [3588] The tense indicates, that it was restored as he stretched it
   out. And this is spiritually significant. According to St. Jerome
   (Comm. in Matt. xii. 13), in the Gospel of the Nazarenes and Ebionites
   this man was described as a mason, and that he had besought Jesus to
   restore him, so that he might not have to beg for his bread.

   [3589] St. Luke vi. 11.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XXXVI.
THE FEEDING OF THE FOUR THOUSAND - TO DALMANUTHA - THE SIGN FROM HEAVEN' -
JOURNEY TO CÆSAREA PHILIPPI - WHAT IS THE LEAVEN OF THE PHARISEES AND SADDUCEES?

   (St. Matt. xv. 32-xvi. 12; St. Mark viii. 1-21.)

   THEY might well gather to Jesus in their thousands, with their wants of
   body and soul, these sheep wandering without a shepherd; for His
   Ministry in that district, as formerly in Galilee, was about to draw to
   a close. And here it is remarkable, that each time His prolonged stay
   and Ministry in a district were brought to a close with some supper, so
   to speak, some festive entertainment on his part. The Galilean Ministry
   had closed with the feeding of the five thousand, the guests being
   mostly from Capernaum and the towns around, as far as Bethsaida
   (Julias), many in the number probably on their way to the Paschal feast
   at Jerusalem. [3590] But now at the second provision for the four
   thousand, with which His Decapolis Ministry closed, the guests were not
   strictly Jews, but semi-Gentile inhabitants of that district and its
   neighbourhood. Lastly, his Judæan Ministry closed with the Last Supper.
   At the first Supper,' the Jewish guests would fain have proclaimed Him
   Messiah-King; at the second, as the Son of Man,' He gave food to those
   Gentile multitudes which having been with Him those days, and consumed
   all their victuals during their stay with him, He could not send away
   fasting, lest they should faint by the way. And on the last occasion,
   as the true Priest and Sacrifice, He fed His own with the true Paschal
   Feast, ere He sent them forth alone into the wilderness. Thus these
   three Suppers' seem connected, each leading up, as it were, to the
   other.

   There can, at any rate, be little doubt that this second feeding of the
   multitude took place in the Gentile Decapolis, and that those who sat
   down to the meal were chiefly the inhabitants of that district. [3591]
   If it be lawful, departing from strict history, to study the symbolism
   of this event, as compared with the previous feeding of the five
   thousand who were Jews, somewhat singular differences will present
   themselves to the mind. On the former occasion there were five thousand
   fed with five loaves, when twelve baskets of fragments were left. On
   the second occasion, four thousand were fed from seven loaves, and
   seven baskets of fragments collected. It is at least curious, that the
   number five in the provision for the Jews is that of the Pentateuch,
   just as the number twelve corresponds to that of the tribes and of the
   Apostles. On the other hand, in the feeding of the Gentiles we mark the
   number four, which is the signature of the world, and seven, which is
   that of the Sanctuary. We would not by any means press it, as if these
   were, in the telling of the narrative, designed coincidences; but, just
   because they are undesigned, we value them, feeling that there is more
   of undesigned symbolism in all God's manifestations - in nature, in
   history, and in grace - than meets the eye of those who observe the
   merely phenomenal. Nay, does it not almost seem, as if all things were
   cast in the mould of heavenly realities, and all earth's shewbread'
   Bread of His Presence'?

   On all general points the narratives of the two-fold miraculous feeding
   run so parallel, that it is not necessary again to consider this event
   in detail. But the attendant circumstances are so different, that only
   the most reckless negative criticism could insist, that one and the
   same event had been presented by the Evangelists as two separate
   occasions. [3592] The broad lines of difference as to the number of
   persons, the provision, and the quantity of fragments left, cannot be
   overlooked. Besides, on the former occasion the repast was provided in
   the evening for those who had gone after Christ, and listened to Him
   all day, but who, in their eager haste, had come without victuals, when
   He would not dismiss them faint and hungry, because they had been so
   busy for the Bread of Life that they had forgotten that of earth. But
   on this second occasion, of the feeding of the Gentiles, the multitude
   had been three days with Him, and what sustenance they had brought must
   have failed, when, in His compassion, the Saviour would not send them
   to their homes fasting, lest they should faint by the way. This could
   not have befallen those Gentiles, who had come to the Christ for food
   to their souls. And, it must be kept in view, that Christ dismissed
   them, not, as before, because they would have made Him their King, but
   because Himself was about to depart from the place; and that, sending
   them to their homes, He could not send them to faint by the way. Yet
   another marked difference lies even in the designation of the baskets'
   in which the fragments left were gathered. At the first feeding, there
   were, as the Greek word shows, the small wicker-baskets which each of
   the Twelve would carry in his hand. At the second feeding they were the
   large baskets, in which provisions, chiefly bread, were stored or
   carried for longer voyages. [3593] For, on the first occasion, when
   they passed into Israelitish territory - and, as they might think, left
   their home for a very brief time - there was not the same need to make
   provision for storing necessaries as on the second, when they were on a
   lengthened journey, and passing through, or tarrying in Gentile
   territory.

   But the most noteworthy difference seems to us this - that on the first
   occasion, they who were fed were Jews - on the second, Gentiles. There
   is an exquisite little trait in the narrative which affords striking,
   though utterly undesigned, evidence of it. In referring to the blessing
   which Jesus spake over the first meal, it was noted, [3594] that, in
   strict accordance with Jewish custom, He only rendered thanks once,
   over the bread. But no such custom would rule His conduct when
   dispensing the food to the Gentiles; and, indeed, His speaking the
   blessing only over the bread, while He was silent when distributing the
   fishes, would probably have given rise to misunderstanding.
   Accordingly, we find it expressly stated that He not only gave thanks
   over the bread, but also spake the blessing over the fishes. [3595] Nor
   should we, when marking such undesigned evidences, omit to notice, that
   on the first occasion, which was immediately before the Passover, the
   guests were, as three of the Evangelists expressly state, ranged on the
   grass,' [3596] while, on the present occasion, which must have been
   several weeks later, when in the East the grass would be burnt up, we
   are told by the two Evangelists that they sat on the ground.' [3597]
   Even the difficulty, raised by some, as to the strange repetition of
   the disciples' reply, the outcome, in part, of non-expectancy, and,
   hence, non-belief, and yet in part also of such doubt as tends towards
   faith: Whence should we have, in a solitary place, [3598] so many
   loaves as to fill so great a multitude?' seems to us only confirmatory
   of the narrative, so psychologically true is it. There is no need for
   the ingenious apology, [3599] that, in the remembrance and tradition of
   the first and second feeding, the similarity of the two events had led
   to greater similarity in their narration than the actual circumstances
   would perhaps have warranted. Interesting thoughts are here suggested
   by the remark, [3600] that it is not easy to transport ourselves into
   the position and feelings of those who had witnessed such a miracle as
   that of the first feeding of the multitude. We think of the Power as
   inherent, and, therefore, permanent. To them it might seem intermittent
   - a gift that came and went.' And this might seem borne out by the fact
   that, ever since, their wants had been supplied in the ordinary way,
   and that, even on the first occasion, they had been directed to gather
   up the fragments of the heaven-supplied meal.

   But more than this requires to be said. First, we must here once more
   remind ourselves, that the former provision was for Jews, and the
   disciples might, from their standpoint, well doubt, or at least not
   assume, that the same miracle would supply the need of the Gentiles,
   and the same board be surrounded by Jew and Gentile. But, further, the
   repetition of the same question by the disciples really indicated only
   a sense of their own inability, and not a doubt of the Saviour's power
   of supply, since on this occasion it was not, as on the former,
   accompanied by a request on their part, to send the multitude away.
   Thus the very repetition of the question might be a humble reference to
   the past, of which they dared not, in the circumstances, ask the
   repetition.

   Yet, even if it were otherwise, the strange forgetfulness of Christ's
   late miracle on the part of the disciples, and their strange repetition
   of the self-same question which had once - and, as it might seem to us,
   for ever - been answered by wondrous deed, need not surprise us. To
   them the miraculous on the part of Christ must ever have been the new,
   or else it would have ceased to be the miraculous. Nor did they ever
   fully realise it, till after His Resurrection they understood, and
   worshipped Him as God Incarnate. And it is only realising faith of
   this, which it was intended gradually to evolve during Christ's
   Ministry on earth, that enables us to apprehend the Divine Help as, so
   to speak, incarnate and ever actually present in Christ. And yet even
   thus, how often we do, who have so believed in Him, forget the Divine
   provision which has come to us so lately, and repeat, though perhaps
   not with the same doubt, yet with the same want of certainty, the
   questions with which we had at first met the Saviour's challenge of our
   faith. And even at the last it is met, as by the prophet, in sight of
   the apparently impossible, by: Lord, Thou knowest.' [3601] More
   frequently, alas! is it met by nonbelief, misbelief, disbelief, or
   doubt, engendered by misunderstanding or forgetfulness of that which
   past experience, as well as the knowledge of Him, should long ago have
   indelibly written on our minds.

   On the occasion referred to in the preceding narrative, those who had
   lately taken counsel together against Jesus - the Pharisees and the
   Herodians, or, to put it otherwise, the Pharisees and Sadducees - were
   not present. For, those who, politically speaking, were Herodians,'
   might also, though perhaps not religiously speaking, yet from the
   Jewish standpoint of St. Matthew, be designated as, or else include,
   Sadducees. [3602] But they were soon to reappear on the scene, as Jesus
   came close to the Jewish territory of Herod. We suppose the feeding of
   the multitude to have taken place in the Decapolis, and probably on, or
   close to, the Eastern shore of the Lake of Galilee. As Jesus sent away
   the multitude whom He had fed, He took ship with His disciples, and
   came into the borders of Magadan,' [3603] [3604] or, as St. Mark puts
   it, the parts of Dalmanutha.' The borders of Magadan' must evidently
   refer to the same district as the parts of Dalmanutha.' The one may
   mark the extreme point of the district southwards, the other northwards
   - or else, the points west [3605] and east - in the locality where He
   and His disciples landed. This is, of course, only a suggestion, since
   neither Magadan,' nor Dalmanutha,' has been identified. This only we
   infer, that the place was close to, yet not within the boundary of,
   strictly Jewish territory; since on His arrival there the Pharisees are
   said to come forth' [3606] - a word which implies, that they resided
   elsewhere,' [3607] though, of course, in the neighbourhood.
   Accordingly, we would seek Magadan south of the Lake of Tiberias, and
   near to the borders of Galilee, but within the Decapolis. Several sites
   bear at present somewhat similar names. In regard to the strange and
   un-Jewish name of Dalmanutha, such utterly unlikely conjectures have
   been made, that one based on etymology may be hazarded. If we take from
   Dalmanutha the Aramaic termination -utha, and regard the initial de as
   a prefix, we have the word Laman, Limin, or Liminah ({hebrew},
   {hebrew}, {hebrew} = limn), which, in Rabbinic Hebrew, means a bay, or
   port, and Dalmanutha might have been the place of a small bay.
   Possibly, it was the name given to the bay close to the ancient
   Tarichæa, the modern Kerak, so terribly famous for a sea-fight, or
   rather a horrible butchery of poor fugitives, when Tarichæa was taken
   by the Romans in the great Jewish war. Close by, the Lake forms a bay
   (Laman), and if, as a modern writer asserts, [3608] the fortress of
   Tarichæa was surrounded by a ditch fed by the Jordan and the Lake, so
   that the fortress could be converted into an island, we see additional
   reason for the designation of Lamanutha. [3609]

   It was from the Jewish territory of Galilee, close by, that the
   Pharisees now came with the Sadducees' tempting Him with questions, and
   desiring that His claims should be put to the ultimate arbitrament of a
   sign from heaven.' We can quite understand such a challenge on the part
   of Sadducees, who would disbelieve the heavenly Mission of Christ, or,
   indeed, to use a modern term, any supra-naturalistic connection between
   heaven and earth. But, in the mouth of the Pharisees also, it had a
   special meaning. Certain supposed miracles had been either witnessed
   by, or testified to them, as done by Christ. As they now represented it
   - since Christ laid claims which, in their view, were inconsistent with
   the doctrine received in Israel, preached a Kingdom quite other than
   that of Jewish expectancy - was at issue with all Jewish customs - more
   than this, was a breaker of the Law, in its most important
   commandments, as they understood them - it followed that, according to
   Deut. xiii., He was a false prophet, who was not to be listened to.
   Then, also, must the miracles which He did have been wrought by the
   power of Beelzebul, the lord of idolatrous worship,' the very prince of
   devils. But had there been real signs, and might it not all have been
   an illusion? Let Him show them a sign,' [3610] and let that sign come
   direct from heaven!

   Two striking instances from Rabbinic literature will show, that this
   demand of the Pharisees was in accordance with their notions and
   practice. We read that, when a certain Rabbi was asked by his disciples
   about the time of Messiah's Coming, he replied: I am afraid that you
   will also ask me for a sign.' When they promised they would not do so,
   he told them that the gate of Rome would fall and be rebuilt, and fall
   again, when there would not be time to restore it, ere the Son of David
   came. On this they pressed him, despite his remonstrance, for a sign,'
   when this was given them - that the waters which issued from the cave
   of Pamias were turned into blood. [3611] [3612] Again, as regards a
   sign from heaven,' it is said that Rabbi Eliezer, when his teaching was
   challenged, successively appealed to certain signs.' First, a
   locust-tree moved at his bidding one hundred, or, according to some,
   four hundred cubits. Next, the channels of water were made to flow
   backwards; then the walls of the Academy leaned forward, and were only
   arrested at the bidding of another Rabbi. Lastly, Eliezer exclaimed: If
   the Law is as I teach, let it be proved from heaven!' when a voice fell
   from the sky (the Bath Qol): What have ye to do with Rabbi Eliezer, for
   the Halakhah is as he teaches?' [3613]

   It was, therefore, no strange thing, when the Pharisees asked of Jesus
   a sign from heaven,' to attest His claims and teaching. The answer
   which He gave was among the most solemn which the leaders of Israel
   could have heard, and He spake it in deep sorrow of spirit. [3614] They
   had asked Him virtually for some sign of His Messiahship; some striking
   vindication from heaven of His claims. It would be given them only too
   soon. We have already seen, [3615] that there was a Coming of Christ in
   His Kingdom - a vindication of His kingly claim before His apostate
   rebellious subjects, when they who would not have Him to reign over
   them, but betrayed and crucified Him, would have their commonwealth and
   city, their polity and Temple, destroyed. By the lurid light of the
   flames of Jerusalem and the Sanctuary were the words on the cross to be
   read again. God would vindicate His claims by laying low the pride of
   their rebellion. The burning of Jerusalem was God's answer to the Jews'
   cry, Away with Him - we have no king but Cæsar;' the thousands of
   crosses on which the Romans hanged their captives, the terrible
   counterpart of the Cross on Golgotha.

   It was to this, that Jesus referred in His reply to the Pharisees and
   Sadducean' Herodians. How strange! Men could discern by the appearance
   of the sky whether the day would be fair or stormy. [3616] And yet,
   when all the signs of the gathering storm, that would destroy their
   city and people, were clearly visible, they, the leaders of the people,
   failed to perceive them! Israel asked for a sign'! No sign should be
   given the doomed land and city other than that which had been given to
   Nineveh: the sign of Jonah.' [3617] The only sign to Nineveh was
   Jonah's solemn warning of near judgment, and his call to repentance -
   and the only sign now, or rather unto this generation no sign,' [3618]
   was the warning cry of judgment and the loving call to repentance.
   [3619]

   It was but a natural, almost necessary, sequence, that He left them and
   departed.' Once more the ship, which bore Him and His disciples, spread
   its sails towards the coast of Bethsaida-Julias. He was on His way to
   the utmost limit of the land, to Cæsarea Philippi, in pursuit of His
   purpose to delay the final conflict. For the great crisis must begin,
   as it would end, in Jerusalem, and at the Feast; it would begin at the
   Feast of Tabernacles, [3620] and it would end at the following
   Passover. But by the way, the disciples themselves showed how little
   even they, who had so long and closely followed Christ, understood His
   teaching, and how prone to misapprehension their spiritual dulness
   rendered them. Yet it was not so gross and altogether incomprehensible,
   as the common reading of what happened would imply.

   When the Lord touched the other shore, His mind and heart were still
   full of the scene from which He had lately passed. For truly, on this
   demand for a sign did the future of Israel seem to hang. Perhaps it is
   not presumptuous to suppose, that the journey across the Lake had been
   made in silence on His part, so deeply were mind and heart engrossed
   with the fate of His own royal city. And now, when they landed, they
   carried ashore the empty provision-baskets; for, as, with his usual
   attention to details, St. Mark notes, they had only brought one loaf of
   bread with them. In fact, in the excitement and hurry they forgot to
   take bread' with them. Whether or not something connected with this
   arrested the attention of Christ, He at last broke the silence,
   speaking that which was so much on His mind. He warned them, as greatly
   they needed it, of the leaven with which Pharisees and Sadducees had,
   each in their own manner, leavened, and so corrupted, [3621] the holy
   bread of Scripture truth. The disciples, aware that in their hurry and
   excitement they had forgotten bread, misunderstood these words of
   Christ, although not in the utterly unaccountable manner which
   commentators generally suppose: as implying a caution against procuring
   bread from His enemies.' It is well-nigh impossible, that the disciples
   could have understood the warning of Christ as meaning any such thing -
   even irrespective of the consideration, that a prohibition to buy bread
   from either the Pharisees or Sadducees would have involved an
   impossibility. The misunderstanding of the disciples was, if
   unwarrantable, at least rational. They thought the words of Christ
   implied, that in His view they had not forgotten to bring bread, but
   purposely omitted to do so, in order, like the Pharisees and Sadducees,
   to seek of Him a sign' of His Divine Messiahship - nay, to oblige Him
   to show such - that of miraculous provision in their want. The mere
   suspicion showed what was in their minds, and pointed to their danger.
   This explains how, in His reply, Jesus reproved them, not for utter
   want of discernment, but only for little faith.' It was their lack of
   faith - the very leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees - which had
   suggested such a thought. Again, if the experience of the past - their
   own twice-repeated question, and the practical answer which it had
   received in the miraculous provision of not only enough, but to spare -
   had taught them anything, it should have been to believe, that the
   needful provision of their wants by Christ was not a sign,' such as the
   Pharisees had asked, but what faith might ever expect from Christ, when
   following after, or waiting upon, Him. Then understood they truly, that
   it was not of the leaven of bread that He had bidden them beware - that
   His mysterious words bore no reference to bread, nor to their supposed
   omission to bring it for the purpose of eliciting a sign from Him, but
   pointed to the far more real danger of the teaching of the Pharisees
   and Sadducees,' which had underlain the demand for a sign from heaven.

   Here, as always, Christ rather suggests than gives the interpretation
   of His meaning. And this is the law of His teaching. Our modern
   Pharisees and Sadducees, also, too often ask of him a sign from heaven
   in evidence of His claims. And we also too often misunderstand His
   warning to us concerning their leaven. Seeing the scanty store in our
   basket, our little faith is busy with thoughts about possible signs in
   multiplying the one loaf which we have, forgetful that, where Christ
   is, faith may ever expect all that is needful, and that our care should
   only be in regard to the teaching which might leaven and corrupt that
   on which our souls are fed.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [3590] Comp. ch. xxix. of this Book.

   [3591] This appears from the whole context. Comp. Bp. Ellicott's
   Histor. Lect. pp. 220, 221, and notes.

   [3592] For a summary of the great differences between the two miracles,
   comp. Bp. Ellicott, u. s. pp. 221, 222. The statements of Meyer ad loc.
   are unsatisfactory.

   [3593] The kphinos (St. Matt. xiv. 20) was the small handbasket (see
   ch. xxix), while the spurs (the term used at the feeding of the four
   thousand) is the large provision-basket or hamper, such as that in
   which St. Paul was let down over the wall at Damascus (Acts ix. 25).
   What makes it more marked is, that the distinction of the two words is
   kept up in the reference to the two miracles (St. Matt. xvi. 9, 10).

   [3594] See ch. xxix.

   [3595] St. Mark viii. 6, 7.

   [3596] St. Matt. xiv. 19; St. Mark vi. 39; St. John vi. 10.

   [3597] Literally, upon the earth.'

   [3598] The word remia means a specially lonely place.

   [3599] Of Bleek.

   [3600] By Dean Plumptre, ad loc.

   [3601] Ezek. xxxvii. 3.

   [3602] Compare, however, vol. i. pp. 238, 240, and Book V. ch. iii.
   Where the political element was dominant, the religious distinction
   might not be so clearly marked.

   [3603] St. Matt. xv. 39.

   [3604] It need scarcely be said that the best reading is Magadan, not
   Magdala.

   [3605] It has been ingeniously suggested, that Magadan might represent
   a Megiddo, being a form intermediate between the Hebrew Megiddon and
   the Asyrian Magadu.

   [3606] St. Mark viii. 11.

   [3607] Canon Cook in the Speaker's Commentary,' ad loc.

   [3608] Sepp, ap. Böttger, Topogr. Lex. zu Fl. Josephus, p. 240.

   [3609] Bearing in mind that Tarichæa was the chief depôt for salting
   the fish for export, the disciples may have had some connections with
   the place.

   [3610] The word here used would, to judge by analogous instances, be
   {hebrew} (Oth), and not {hebrew} (Siman), as Wünsche suggests, even
   though the word is formed from the Greek semeon. But the Rabbinic Siman
   seems to me to have a different shade of meaning.

   [3611] Sanh. 98 a last 4 lines.

   [3612] However, this (and, for that matter, the next Haggadah also) may
   have been intended to be taken in an allegoric or parabolic sense,
   though there is no hint given to that effect.

   [3613] Baba Mez. 59 b, line 4 from top, &c.

   [3614] St. Mark viii. 12.

   [3615] See ch. xxvii. vol. i. p. 647.

   [3616] Although some of the best MSS. omit St. Matt. xvi. 2, beginning
   When it is evening,' to the end of ver. 3, most critics are agreed that
   it should be retained. But the words in italics in vv. 2 and 3 should
   be left out, so as to mark exclamations.

   [3617] So according to the best reading.

   [3618] St. Mark viii. 12.

   [3619] St. Luke xix. 41-44.

   [3620] St. John vii.

   [3621] The figurative meaning of leaven, as that which morally
   corrupts, was familiar to the Jews. Thus the word {hebrew} (Seor) is
   used in the sense of moral leaven' hindering the good in Ber. 17 a
   while the verb {hebrew} (chamets) to be come leavened,' is used to
   indicate moral deterioration in Rosh haSh. 3 b, 4 a.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XXXVII.
THE GREAT CONFESSION - THE GREAT COMMISSION - THE GREAT INSTRUCTION - THE GREAT
TEMPTATION - THE GREAT DECISION.

   (St. Matt. xvi. 13-28; St. Mark viii. 27, ix. 1; St. Luke ix. 18-27.)

   If we are right in identifying the little bay - Dalmanutha - with the
   neighbourhood of Tarichæa, yet another link of strange coincidence
   connects the prophetic warning spoken there with its fulfilment. From
   Dalmanutha our Lord passed across the Lake to Cæsarea Philippi. From
   Cæsarea Philippi did Vespasian pass through Tiberias to Tarichæa, when
   the town and people were destroyed, and the blood of the fugitives
   reddened the Lake, and their bodies choked its waters. Even amidst the
   horrors of the last Jewish war, few spectacles could have been so
   sickening as that of the wild stand at Tarichæa, ending with the
   butchery of 6,500 on land and sea, and lastly, the vile treachery by
   which they, to whom mercy had been promised, were lured into the circus
   at Tiberias, when the weak and old, to the number of about 1,200, were
   slaughtered, and the rest - upwards of 30,400 - sold into slavery.
   [3622] [3623] Well might He, Who foresaw and foretold that terrible
   end, standing on that spot, deeply sigh in spirit as He spake to them
   who asked a sign,' and yet saw not what even ordinary discernment might
   have perceived of the red and lowering sky overhead.

   From Dalmanutha, across the Lake, then by the plain where so lately the
   five thousand had been fed, and near to Bethsaida, would the road of
   Christ and His disciples lead to the capital of the Tetrarch Philip,
   the ancient Paneas, or, as it was then called, Cæsarea Philippi, the
   modern Banias. Two days' journey would accomplish the whole distance.
   There would be no need of taking the route now usually followed, by
   Safed. Straight northwards from the Lake of Galilee, a distance of
   about ten miles, leads the road to the uppermost Jordan-Lake, that now
   called Huleh, the ancient Merom. [3624] As we ascend from the shores of
   Gennesaret, we have a receding view of the whole Lake and the
   Jordan-valley beyond. Before us rise hills; over them, to the west, are
   the heights of Safed; beyond them swells the undulating plain between
   the two ranges of Anti-Libanus; far off is Hermon, with its twin
   snow-clad heads (the Hermons'), [3625] and, in the dim far background,
   majestic Lebanon. It is scarcely likely, that Jesus and His disciples
   skirted the almost impenetrable marsh and jungle by Lake Merom. It was
   there, that Joshua had fought the last and decisive battle against
   Jabin and his confederates, by which Northern Palestine was gained to
   Israel. [3626] We turn north of the Lake, and west to Kedes, the Kedesh
   Naphtali of the Bible, the home of Barak. We have now passed from the
   limestone of Central Palestine into the dark basalt formation. How
   splendidly that ancient Priest-City of Refuge lay! In the rich heritage
   of Naphtali, [3627] Kedesh was one of the fairest spots. As we climb
   the steep hill above the marshes of Merom, we have before us one of the
   richest plains of about two thousand acres. We next pass through
   olive-groves and up a gentle slope. On a knoll before us, at the foot
   of which gushes a copious spring, lies the ancient Kedesh.

   The scenery is very similar, as we travel on towards Cæsarea Philippi.
   About an hour and a half farther, we strike the ancient Roman road. We
   are now amidst vines and mulberry-trees. Passing through a narrow rich
   valley, we ascend through a rocky wilderness of hills, where the
   woodbine luxuriantly trails around the plane trees. On the height there
   is a glorious view back to Lake Merom and the Jordan-valley; forward,
   to the snowy peaks of Hermon; east, to height on height, and west, to
   peaks now only crowned with ruins. We still continued along the height,
   then descended a steep slope, leaving, on our left, the ancient Abel
   Beth Maachah, [3628] the modern Abil. Another hour, and we are in a
   plain where all the springs of the Jordan unite. The view from here is
   splendid, and the soil most rich, the wheat crops being quite ripe in
   the beginning of May. Half an hour more, and we cross a bridge over the
   bright blue waters of the Jordan, or rather of the Hasbany, which,
   under a very wilderness of oleanders, honeysuckle, clematis, and wild
   rose, rush among huge boulders, between walls of basalt. We leave
   aside, at a distance of about half an hour to the east, the ancient Dan
   (the modern Tell-Kady), even more glorious in its beauty and richness
   than what we have passed. Dan lies on a hill above the plain. On the
   western side of it, under overhanging thickets of oleander and other
   trees, and amidst masses of basalt boulders, rise what are called the
   lower springs' of Jordan, issuing as a stream from a basin sixty paces
   wide, and from a smaller source close by. The lower springs' supply the
   largest proportion of what forms the Jordan. And from Dan olive-groves
   and oak-glades slope up to Banias, or Cæsarea Philippi.

   The situation of the ancient Cæsarea Philippi (1,147 feet above the
   sea) is, indeed, magnificent. Nestling amid three valleys on a terrace
   in the angle of Hermon, it is almost shut out from view by cliffs and
   woods. Everywhere there is a wild medley of cascades, mulberry trees,
   fig-trees, dashing torrents, festoons of vines, bubbling fountains,
   reeds, and ruins, and the mingled music of birds and waters.' [3629]
   The vegetation and fertility all around are extraordinary. The modern
   village of Banias is within the walls of the old fortifications, and
   the ruins show that it must anciently have extended far southwards. But
   the most remarkable points remain to be described. The western side of
   a steep mountain, crowned by the ruins of an ancient castle, forms an
   abrupt rock-wall. Here, from out an immense cavern, bursts a river.
   These are the upper sources' of the Jordan. This cave, an ancient
   heathen sanctuary of Pan, gave its earliest name of Paneas to the town.
   Here Herod, when receiving the tetrarchy from Augustus, built a temple
   in his honour. On the rocky wall close by, votive niches may still be
   traced, one of them bearing the Greek inscription, Priest of Pan.' When
   Herod's son, Philip, received the tetrarchy, he enlarged and greatly
   beautified the ancient Paneas, and called it in honour of the Emperor,
   Cæsarea Philippi. The castle-mount (about 1,000 feet above Paneas),
   takes nearly an hour to ascend, and is separated by a deep valley from
   the flank of Mount Hermon. The castle itself (about two miles from
   Banias) is one of the best preserved ruins, its immense bevelled
   structure resembling the ancient forts of Jerusalem, and showing its
   age. It followed the irregularities of the mountain, and was about
   1,000 feet long by 200 wide. The eastern and higher part formed, as in
   Machaerus, a citadel within the castle. In some parts the rock rises
   higher than the walls. The views, sheer down the precipitous sides of
   the mountain, into the valleys and far away, are magnificent.

   It seems worth while, even at such length, to describe the scenery
   along this journey, and the look and situation of Cæsarea, when we
   recall the importance of the events enacted there, or in the immediate
   neighbourhood. It was into this chiefly Gentile district, that the Lord
   now withdrew with His disciples after that last and decisive question
   of the Pharisees. It was here that, as His question, like Moses' rod,
   struck their hearts, there leaped from the lips of Peter the living,
   life-spreading waters of his confession. It may have been, that this
   rock-wall below the castle, from under which sprang Jordan, or the rock
   on which the castle stood, supplied the material suggestion for
   Christ's words: Thou art Peter, and on this rock will I build My
   Church.' [3630] In Cæsarea, or its immediate neighbourhood, [3631] did
   the Lord spend, with His disciples, six days after this confession; and
   here, close by, on one of the heights of snowy Hermon, was the scene of
   the Transfiguration, the light of which shone for ever into the hearts
   of the disciples on their dark and tangled path; [3632] nay, far beyond
   that - beyond life and death - beyond the grave and the judgment, to
   the perfect brightness of the Resurrection-day.

   As we think of it, there seems nothing strange in it, but all most wise
   and most gracious, that such events should have taken place far away
   from Galilee and Israel, in the lonely grandeur of the shadows of
   Hermon, and even amongst a chiefly Gentile population. Not in Judæa,
   nor even in Galilee - but far away from the Temple, the Synagogue, the
   Priests, Pharisees and Scribes, was the first confession of the Church
   made, and on this confession its first foundations laid. Even this
   spoke of near judgment and doom to what had once been God's chosen
   congregation. And all that happened, though Divinely shaped as regards
   the end, followed in a natural and orderly succession of events. Let us
   briefly recall the circumstances, which in the previous chapters have
   been described in detail.

   It had been needful to leave Capernaum. The Galilean Ministry of the
   Christ was ended, and, alike the active persecutions of the Pharisees
   from Jerusalem, the inquiries of Herod, whose hands, stained with the
   blood of the Baptist, were tremblingly searching for his greater
   Successor, and the growing indecision and unfitness of the people - as
   well as the state of the disciples - pointed to the need for leaving
   Galilee. Then followed the Last Supper' to Israel on the eastern shore
   of Lake Gennesaret, when they would have made Him a King. He must now
   withdraw quite away, out of the boundaries of Israel. Then came that
   miraculous night-journey, the brief Sabbath-stay at Capernaum by the
   way, the journey through Tyrian and Sidonian territory, and round to
   the Decapolis, the teaching and healing there, the gathering of the
   multitude to Him, together with that Supper,' which closed His Ministry
   there, and, finally, the withdrawal to Tarichæa, where His Apostles, as
   fishermen of the Lake, may have had business-connections, since the
   place was the great central depot for selling and preparing the fish
   for export.

   In that distant and obscure corner, on the boundary-line between Jew
   and Gentile, had that greatest crisis in the history of the world
   occurred, which sealed the doom of Israel, and in their place
   substituted the Gentiles as citizens of the Kingdom. And, in this
   respect also, it is most significant, that the confession of the Church
   likewise took place in territory chiefly inhabited by Gentiles, and the
   Transfiguration on Mount Hermon. That crisis had been the public
   challenge of the Pharisees and Sadducees, that Jesus should legitimate
   His claims to the Messiahship by a sign from heaven. It is not too much
   to assert, that neither His questioners, nor even His disciples,
   understood the answer of Jesus, nor yet perceived the meaning of His
   sign.' To the Pharisees Jesus would seem to have been defeated, and to
   stand self-convicted of having made Divine claims which, when
   challenged, He could not substantiate. He had hitherto elected(as they,
   who understood not His teaching, would judge) to prove Himself the
   Messiah by the miracles which He had wrought - and now, when met on His
   own ground, He had publicly declined, or at least evaded, the
   challenge. He had conspicuously - almost self-confessedly - failed! At
   least, so it would appear to those who could not understand His reply
   and sigh.' We note that a similar final challenge was addressed to
   Jesus by the High-Priest, when he adjured Him to say, whether He was
   what He claimed. His answer then was an assertion - not a proof; and,
   unsupported as it seemed, His questioners would only regard it as
   blasphemy.

   But what of the disciples, who (as we have seen) would probably
   understand the sign' of Christ little better than the Pharisees? That
   what might seem Christ's failure, in not daring to meet the challenge
   of His questioners, must have left some impression on them, is not only
   natural, but appears even from Christ's warning of the leaven - that
   is, of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees. Indeed, that this
   unmet challenge and virtual defeat of Jesus did make lasting and
   deepest impression in His disfavour, is evident from the later
   challenge of His own relatives to go and meet the Pharisees at
   headquarters in Judæa, and to show openly, if He could, by His works,
   that He was the Messiah. [3633] All the more remarkable appears
   Christ's dealing with His disciples, His demand on, and training of
   their faith. It must be remembered, that His last hard' sayings at
   Capernaum had led to the defection of many, who till then had been His
   disciples. [3634] Undoubtedly this had already tried their faith, as
   appears from the question of Christ: Will ye also go away?' [3635] It
   was this wise and gracious dealing with them - this putting the one
   disappointment of doubt, engendered by what they could not understand,
   against their whole past experience in following Him, which enabled
   them to overcome. And it is this which also enables us to answer the
   doubt, perhaps engendered by inability to understand seemingly
   unintelligible, hard sayings of Christ, such as that to the disciples
   about giving them His Flesh to eat, or about His being the Living Bread
   from heaven. And, this alternative being put to them: would they, could
   they, after their experience of Him, go away from Him, they overcame,
   as we overcome, through what almost sounds like a cry of despair, yet
   is a shout of victory: Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words
   of eternal life.'

   And all that followed only renewed and deepened the trial of faith,
   which had commenced at Capernaum. We shall, perhaps, best understand it
   when following the progress of this trial in him who, at last, made
   shipwreck of his faith: Judas Iscariot. Without attempting to gaze into
   the mysterious abyss of the Satanic element in his apostasy, we may
   trace his course in its psychological development. We must not regard
   Judas as a monster, but as one with passions like ourselves. True,
   there was one terrible master-passion in his soul - covetousness; but
   that was only the downward, lower aspect of what seems, and to many
   really is, that which leads to the higher and better - ambition. It had
   been thoughts of Israel's King which had first set his imagination on
   fire, and brought him to follow the Messiah. Gradually, increasingly,
   came the disenchantment. It was quite another Kingdom, that of Christ;
   quite another Kingship than what had set Judas aglow. This feeling was
   deepened as events proceeded. His confidence must have been terribly
   shaken when the Baptist was beheaded. What a contrast to the time when
   his voice had bent the thousands of Israel, as trees in the wind! So
   this had been nothing - and the Baptist must be written off, not as
   for, but as really against, Christ. Then came the next disappointment,
   when Jesus would not be made King. Why not - if He were King? And so
   on, step by step, till the final depth was reached, when Jesus would
   not, or could not - which was it? - meet the public challenge of the
   Pharisees. We take it, that it was then that the leaven pervaded and
   leavened Judas in heart and soul.

   We repeat it, that what so, and permanently, penetrated Judas, could
   not (as Christ's warning shows) have left the others wholly unaffected.
   The very presence of Judas with them must have had its influence. And
   how did Christ deal with it? There was, first, the silent sail across
   the Lake, and then the warning which put them on their guard, lest the
   little leaven should corrupt the bread of the Sanctuary, on which they
   had learned to live. The littleness of their faith must be corrected;
   it must grow and become strong. And so we can understand what follows.
   It was after solitary prayer - no doubt for them [3636] - that, with
   reference to the challenge of the Pharisees, the leaven' that
   threatened them, He now gathered up all their experience of the past by
   putting to them the question, what men, the people who had watched His
   Works and heard His Words, regarded Him as being. Even on them some
   conviction had been wrought by their observance of Him. It marked Him
   out (as the disciples said) as different from all around, nay, from all
   ordinary men: like the Baptist, or Elijah, or as if He were one of the
   old prophets alive again. But, if even the multitude had gathered such
   knowledge of Him, what was their experience, who had always been with
   Him? Answered he, who most truly represented the Church, because he
   combined with the most advanced experience of the three most intimate
   disciples the utmost boldness of confession: Thou art the Christ!'

   And so in part was this leaven' of the Pharisees purged! Yet not
   wholly. For then it was, that Christ spake to them of His sufferings
   and death, and that the resistance of Peter showed how deeply that
   leaven had penetrated. And then followed the grand contrast presented
   by Christ, between minding the things of men and those of God, with the
   warning which it implied. and the monition as to the necessity of
   bearing the cross of contempt, and the absolute call to do so, as
   addressed to those who would be His disciples. Here, then, the contest
   about the sign,' or rather the challenge about the Messiahship, was
   carried from the mental into the moral sphere, and so decided. Six days
   more of quiet waiting and growth of faith, and it was met, rewarded,
   crowned, and perfected by the sight on the Mount of Transfiguration;
   yet, even so, perceived only as through the heaviness of sleep.

   Thus far for the general arrangement of these events. We shall now be
   prepared better to understand the details. It was certainly not for
   personal reasons, but to call attention to the impression made even on
   the popular mind, to correct its defects, and to raise the minds of the
   Apostles to far higher thoughts, that He asked them about the opinions
   of men concerning Himself. Their difference proved not only their
   incompetence to form a right view, but also how many-sided Christ's
   teaching must have been. We are probably correct in supposing, that
   popular opinion did not point to Christ as literally the Baptist,
   Elijah, Jeremiah, or one of the other prophets who had long been dead.
   For, although the literal reappearance of Elijah, and probably also of
   Jeremiah, [3637] was expected, the Pharisees did not teach, nor the
   Jews believe in, a transmigration of souls. Besides, no one looked for
   the return of any of the other old prophets, nor could any one have
   seriously imagined, that Jesus was, literally, John the Baptist, since
   all knew them to have been contemporaries. [3638] Rather would it mean,
   that some saw in Him the continuation of the work of John, as heralding
   and preparing the way of the Messiah, or, if they did not believe in
   John, of that of Elijah; while to others He seemed a second Jeremiah,
   denouncing woe on Israel, [3639] and calling to tardy repentance; or
   else one of those old prophets, who had spoken either of the near
   judgment or of the coming glory. But, however men differed on these
   points, in this all agreed, that they regarded Him not as an ordinary
   man or teacher, but His Mission as straight from heaven; and, alas, in
   this also, that they did not view Him as the Messiah. Thus far, then,
   there was already retrogression in popular opinion, and thus far had
   the Pharisees already succeeded.

   There is a significant emphasis in the words, with which Jesus turned
   from the opinion of the multitudes' to elicit the faith of the
   disciples: But you, whom do you say that I am?' It is the more marked,
   as the former question was equally emphasised by the use of the article
   (in the original): Who do the men say that I am?' [3640] In that moment
   it leaped, by the power of God, to the lips of Peter: Thou art the
   Christ (the Messiah), the Son of the Living God.' [3641] St. Chrysostom
   has beautifully designated Peter as the mouth of the Apostles' - and we
   recall, in this connection, the words of St. Paul as casting light on
   the representative character of Peter's confession as that of the
   Church, and hence on the meaning of Christ's reply, and its equally
   representative application: With the mouth confession is made unto
   salvation.' [3642] The words of the confession are given somewhat
   differently by the three Evangelists. From our standpoint, the briefest
   form (that of St. Mark): Thou art the Christ,' means quite as much as
   the fullest (that of St. Matthew): Thou art the Christ, the Son of the
   Living God.' We can thus understand, how the latter might be truthfully
   adopted, and, indeed, would be the most truthful, accurate, and
   suitable in a Gospel primarily written for the Jews. And here we
   notice, that the most exact form of the words seems that in the Gospel
   of St. Luke: The Christ of God.'

   In saying this, so far from weakening, we strengthen the import of this
   glorious confession. For first, we must keep in view, that the
   confession: Thou art the Messiah' is also that: Thou art the Son of the
   Living God.' If, according to the Gospels, we believe that Jesus was
   the true Messiah, promised to the fathers - the Messiah of God' - we
   cannot but believe that He is the Son of the Living God.' Scripture and
   reason equally point to this conclusion from the premisses. But,
   further, we must view such a confession, even though made in the power
   of God, in its historical connection. The words must have been such as
   Peter could have uttered, and the disciples acquiesced in, at the time.
   Moreover, they should mark a distinct connection with, and yet progress
   upon, the past. All these conditions are fulfilled by the view here
   taken. The full knowledge, in the sense of really understanding, that
   He was the Son of the Living God, came to the disciples only after the
   Resurrection. [3643] Previously to the confession of Peter, the ship's
   company, that had witnessed His walking on the water, had owned: Of a
   truth Thou art the Son of God,' [3644] but not in the sense in which a
   well-informed, believing Jew would hail Him as the Messiah, and the Son
   of the Living God,' designating both His Office and His Nature - and
   these two in their combination. Again, Peter himself had made a
   confession of Christ, when, after his discourse at Capernaum, so many
   of His disciples had forsaken Him. It had been: We have believed, and
   know that Thou art the Holy One of God.' [3645] [3646] The mere mention
   of these words shows both their internal connection with those of his
   last and crowning confession: Thou art the Christ of God,' and the
   immense progress made.

   The more closely we view it, the loftier appears the height of this
   confession. We think of it as an advance on Peter's past; we think of
   it in its remembered contrast to the late challenge of the Pharisees,
   and as so soon following on the felt danger of their leaven. And we
   think of it, also, in its almost immeasurable distance from the
   appreciative opinion of the better disposed among the people. In the
   words of this confession Peter has consciously reached the firm ground
   of Messianic acknowledgment. All else is implied in this, and would
   follow from it. It is the first real confession of the Church. We can
   understand, how it followed after solitary prayer by Christ [3647] - we
   can scarcely doubt, for that very revelation by the Father, which He
   afterwards joyously recognised in the words of Peter.

   The reply of the Saviour is only recorded by St. Matthew. Its omission
   by St. Mark might be explained on the ground that St. Peter himself had
   furnished the information. But its absence there and in the Gospel of
   St. Luke [3648] proves (as Beza remarks), that it could never have been
   intended as the foundation of so important a doctrine as that of the
   permanent supremacy of St. Peter. But even if it were such, it would
   not follow that this supremacy devolved on the successors of St. Peter,
   nor yet that the Pope of Rome is the successor of St. Peter; nor is
   there even solid evidence that St. Peter ever was Bishop of Rome. The
   dogmatic inferences from a certain interpretation of the words of
   Christ to Peter being therefore utterly untenable, we can, with less
   fear of bias, examine their meaning. The whole form here is Hebraistic.
   The blessed art thou' is Jewish in spirit and form; the address, Simon
   bar Jona,' proves that the Lord spake in Aramaic. Indeed, a Jewish
   Messiah responding, in the hour of his Messianic acknowledgment, in
   Greek to His Jewish confessor, seems utterly incongruous. Lastly, the
   expression flesh and blood,' as contrasted with God, occurs not only in
   that Apocryphon of strictly Jewish authorship, the Wisdom of the Son of
   Sirach, [3649] and in the letters of St. Paul, [3650] but in almost
   innumerable passages in Jewish writings, as denoting man in opposition
   to God; while the revelation of such a truth by the Father Which is in
   Heaven,' represents not only both Old and New Testament Teaching, but
   is clothed in language familiar to Jewish ears ({hebrew} ).

   Not less Jewish in form are the succeeding words of Christ, Thou art
   Peter (Petros), and upon this rock (Petra) will I build my Church.' We
   notice in the original the change from the masculine gender, Peter'
   (Petros), to the feminine, Petra' (Rock'), which seems the more
   significant, that Petros is used in Greek for stone,' and also
   sometimes for rock,' while Petra always means a rock.' The change of
   gender must therefore have a definite object which will presently be
   more fully explained. Meantime we recall that, when Peter first came to
   Christ, the Lord had said unto him: Thou shalt be called Cephas, which
   is, by interpretation, Peter [Petros, a Stone, or else a Rock]' [3651]
   - the Aramaic word Kepha ({hebrew}, or {hebrew}) meaning, like Peter,
   both stone' and rock.' But both the Greek Petros and Petra have (as
   already stated) passed into Rabbinic language. Thus, the name Peter, or
   rather Petros, is Jewish, and occurs, for example, as that of the
   father of a certain Rabbi (Jose bar Petros). [3652] When the Lord,
   therefore, prophetically gave the name Cephas, it may have been that by
   that term He gave only a prophetic interpretation to what had been his
   previous name Peter ({hebrew}). This seems the more likely, since, as
   we have previously seen, it was the practice in Galilee to have two
   names, [3653] especially when the strictly Jewish name, such as Simon,
   had no equivalent among the Gentiles. [3654] Again, the Greek word
   Petra - Rock - (on this Petra [Rock] will I build my Church') was used
   in the same sense in Rabbinic language. It occurs twice in a passage,
   which so fully illustrates the Jewish use, not only of the word, but of
   the whole figure, that it deserves a place here. According to Jewish
   ideas, the world would not have been created, unless it had rested, as
   it were, on some solid foundation of piety and acceptance of God's Law
   - in other words, it required a moral, before it could receive a
   physical foundation. Rabbinism here contrasts the Gentile world with
   Israel. It is, so runs the comment, as if a king were going to build a
   city. One and another site is tried for a foundation, but in digging
   they always come upon water. At last they come upon a Rock (Petra,
   {hebrew}). So, when God was about to build his world, He could not rear
   it on the generation of Enos nor on that of the flood, who brought
   destruction on the world; but when He beheld that Abraham would arise
   in the future, He said: Behold I have found a Rock (Petra, {hebrew}) to
   build on it, and to found the world,' whence also Abraham is called a
   Rock (Tsur, {hebrew}) as it is said: [3655] Look unto the Rock whence
   ye are hewn.' [3656] [3657] The parallel between Abraham and Peter
   might be carried even further. If, from a misunderstanding of the
   Lord's promise to Peter, later Christian legend represented the Apostle
   as sitting at the gate of heaven, Jewish legend represents Abraham as
   sitting at the gate of Gehenna, so as to prevent all who had the seal
   of circumcision from falling into its abyss. [3658] [3659] To complete
   this sketch, in the curious Jewish legend about the Apostle Peter,
   which is outlined in an Appendix to this volume, [3660] Peter is always
   designated as Simon Kepha (spelt {hebrew}), there being, however, some
   reminiscence of the meaning attached to his name in the statement made,
   that, after his death, they built a church and tower, and called it
   Peter ({hebrew}) which is the name for stone, because he sat there upon
   a stone till his death' ({hebrew}). [3661]

   But to return. Believing, that Jesus spoke to Peter in the Aramic, we
   can now understand how the words Petros and Petra would be purposely
   used by Christ to mark the difference, which their choice would
   suggest. Perhaps it might be expressed in this somewhat clumsy
   paraphrase: Thou art Peter (Petros) - a Stone or Rock - and upon this
   Petra - the Rock, the Petrine - will I found My Church.' If, therefore,
   we would not certainly apply them to the words of Peter's confession,
   we would certainly apply them to that which was the Petrine in Peter:
   the heaven-given faith which manifested itself in his confession.
   [3662] And we can further understand how, just as Christ's
   contemporaries may have regarded the world as reared on the rock of
   faithful Abraham, so Christ promised, that He would build His Church on
   the Petrine in Peter - on his faith and confession. Nor would the term
   Church' sound strange in Jewish ears. The same Greek word (kklesa), as
   the equivalent of the Hebrew Qahal, convocation,' the called,' [3663]
   occurs in the LXX. rendering of the Old Testament, and in the Wisdom of
   the Son of Sirach' [3664] and was apparently in familiar use at the
   time. [3665] In Hebrew use it referred to Israel, not in their national
   but in their religious unity. As here employed, it would convey the
   prophecy, that His disciples would in the future be joined together in
   a religious unity; that this religious unity or Church' would be a
   building of which Christ was the Builder; that it would be founded on
   the Petrine' of heaven-taught faith and confession; and that this
   religious unity, this Church, was not only intended for a time, like a
   school of thought, but would last beyond death and the disembodied
   state: that, alike as regarded Christ and His Church - the gates of
   Hades' [3666] shall not prevail against it.

   Viewing the Church' as a building founded upon the Petrine,' [3667] it
   was not to vary, but to carry on the same metaphor, when Christ
   promised to give to him who had spoken as representative of the
   Apostles - the stewards of the mysteries of God' - the keys of the
   Kingdom of Heaven.' For, as the religious unity of His disciples, or
   the Church, represented the royal rule of heaven,' so, figuratively,
   entrance into the gates of this building, submission to the rule of God
   - to that Kingdom of which Christ was the King. And we remember how, in
   a special sense, this promise was fulfilled to Peter. Even as he had
   been the first to utter the confession of the Church, so was he also
   privileged to be the first to open its hitherto closed gates to the
   Gentiles, when God made choice of him, that, through his mouth, the
   Gentiles should first hear the words of the Gospel, [3668] and at his
   bidding first be baptized. [3669]

   If hitherto it has appeared that what Christ said to Peter, though
   infinitely transcending Jewish ideas, was yet, in its expression and
   even cast of thought, such as to be quite intelligible to Jewish minds,
   nay, so familiar to them, that, as by well-marked steps, they might
   ascend to the higher Sanctuary, the difficult words with which our Lord
   closed must be read in the same light. For, assuredly, in interpreting
   such a saying of Christ to Peter, our first inquiry must be, what it
   would convey to the person to whom the promise was addressed. And here
   we recall, that no other terms were in more constant use in Rabbinic
   Canon-Law than those of binding' and loosing.' The words are the
   literal translation of the Hebrew equivalents Asar ({hebrew}), which
   means to bind,' in the sense of prohibiting, and Hittir ({hebrew}, from
   {hebrew}) which means to loose,' in the sense of permitting. For the
   latter the term Shera or Sheri ({hebrew}, or {hebrew}) is also used.
   But this expression is, both in Targumic and Talmudic diction, not
   merely the equivalent of permitting, but passes into that of remitting
   or pardoning. On the other hand, binding and loosing' referred simply
   to things or acts prohibiting or else permitting them, declaring them
   lawful or unlawful. This was one of the powers claimed by the Rabbis.
   As regards their laws (not decisions as to things or acts), it was a
   principle, that while in Scripture there were some that bound and some
   that loosed, all the laws of the Rabbis were in reference to binding.'
   [3670] If this then represented the legislative, another pretension of
   the Rabbis, that of declaring free' or else liable,' i.e., guilty
   (Patur or Chayyabh), expressed their claim to the judicial power. By
   the first of these they bound' or loosed' acts or things; by the second
   they remitted' or retained,' declared a person free from, or liable to
   punishment. to compensation, or to sacrifice. These two powers - the
   legislative and judicial - which belonged to the Rabbinic office,
   Christ now transferred, and that not in their pretension, but in their
   reality, to His Apostles: the first here to Peter as their
   Representative, the second after His Resurrection to the Church. [3671]

   On the second of these powers we need not at present dwell. That of
   binding' and loosing' included all the legislative functions for the
   new Church. And it was a reality. In the view of the Rabbis heaven was
   like earth, and questions were discussed and settled by a heavenly
   Sanhedrin. Now, in regard to some of their earthly decrees, they were
   wont to say that the Sanhedrin above' confirmed what the Sanhedrin
   beneath' had done. But the words of Christ, as they avoided the foolish
   conceit of His contemporaries, left it not doubtful, but conveyed the
   assurance that, under the guidance of the Holy Ghost, whatsoever they
   bound or loosed on earth would be bound or loosed in heaven.

   But all this that had passed between them could not be matter of common
   talk - least of all, at that crisis in His History, and in that
   locality. Accordingly, all the three Evangelists record - each with
   distinctive emphasis [3672] - that the open confession of his
   Messiahship, which was virtually its proclamation, was not to be made
   public. Among the people it could only have led to results the opposite
   of those to be desired. How unprepared even that Apostle was, who had
   made proclamation of the Messiah, for what his confession implied, and
   how ignorant of the real meaning of Israel's Messiah, appeared only too
   soon. For, His proclamation as the Christ imposed on the Lord, so to
   speak, the necessity of setting forth the mode of His contest and
   victory - the Cross and the Crown. Such teaching was the needed
   sequence of Peter's confession - needed, not only for the correction of
   misunderstanding, but for direction. And yet significantly it is only
   said, that He began' to teach them these things - no doubt, as regarded
   the manner, as well as the time of this teaching. The Evangelists,
   indeed, write it down in plain language, as fully taught them by later
   experience, that He was to be rejected by the rulers of Israel, slain,
   and to rise again the third day. And there can be as little doubt, that
   Christ's language (as afterwards they looked back upon it) must have
   clearly implied all this, as that at the time they did not fully
   understand it. [3673] He was so constantly in the habit of using
   symbolic language, and had only lately reproved them for taking that
   about the leaven' in a literal, which He had meant in a figurative
   sense, that it was but natural, they should have regarded in the same
   light announcements which, in their strict literality, would seem to
   them well nigh incredible. They could well understand His rejection by
   the Scribes - a sort of figurative death, or violent suppression of His
   claims and doctrines, and then, after briefest period, their
   resurrection, as it were - but not these terrible details in their full
   literality.

   But, even so, there was enough of terrible realism in the words of
   Jesus to alarm Peter. His very affection, intensely human, to the Human
   Personality of his Master would lead him astray. That He, Whom he
   verily believed to be the Messiah, Whom he loved with all the
   intenseness of such an intense nature - that he should pass through
   such an ordeal - No! Never! He put it in the very strongest language,
   although the Evangelist gives only a literal translation of the
   Rabbinic expression [3674] - God forbid it, God be merciful to Thee:'
   [3675] no, such never could, nor should be to the Christ! It was an
   appeal to the Human in Christ, just as Satan had, in the great
   Temptation after the forty days' fast, appealed to the purely Human in
   Jesus. Temptations these, with which we cannot reason, but which we
   must put behind us as behind, or else they will be a stumbling-block
   before us; temptations, which come to us often through the love and
   care of others, Satan transforming himself into an Angel of light;
   temptations, all the more dangerous, that they appeal to the purely
   human, not the sinful, element in us, but which arise from the
   circumstance, that they who so become our stumbling-block, so long as
   they are before us, are prompted by an affection which has regard to
   the purely human, and, in its one-sided human intenseness, minds the
   things of man, and not those of God.

   Yet Peter's words were to be made useful, by affording to the Master
   the opportunity of correcting what was amiss in the hearts of all His
   disciples, and teaching them such general principles about His Kingdom,
   and about that implied in true discipleship, as would, if received in
   the heart, enable them in due time victoriously to bear those trials
   connected with that rejection and Death of the Christ, which at the
   time they could not understand. Not a Messianic Kingdom, with glory to
   its heralds and chieftains - but self-denial, and the voluntary bearing
   of that cross on which the powers of this world would nail the
   followers of Christ. They knew the torture which their masters - the
   power of the world - the Romans, were wont to inflict: such must they,
   and similar must we all, be prepared to bear, [3676] and, in so doing,
   begin by denying self. In such a contest, to lose life would be to gain
   it, to gain would be to lose life. And, if the issue lay between these
   two, who could hesitate what to choose, even if it were ours to gain or
   lose a whole world? For behind it all there was a reality - a Messianic
   triumph and Kingdom - not, indeed, such as they imagined, but far
   higher, holier: the Coming of the Son of Man in the glory of His
   Father, and with His Angels, and then eternal gain or loss, according
   to our deeds. [3677]

   But why speak of the future and distant? A sign' - a terrible sign of
   it from heaven,' a vindication of Christ's rejected' claims, a
   vindication of the Christ, Whom they had slain, invoking His Blood on
   their City and Nation, a vindication, such as alone these men could
   understand, of the reality of His Resurrection and Ascension, was in
   the near future. The flames of the City and Temple would be the light
   in that nation's darkness, by which to read the inscription on the
   Cross. All this not afar off. Some of those who stood there would not
   taste death,' [3678] till in those judgments they would see that the
   Son of Man had come in His Kingdom. [3679]

   Then - only then - at the burning of the City! Why not now, visibly,
   and immediately on their terrible sin? Because God shows not signs from
   heaven' such as man seeks; because His long-suffering waiteth long;
   because, all unnoticed, the finger moves on the dial-plate of time till
   the hour strikes; because there is Divine grandeur and majesty in the
   slow, unheard, certain nigh-march of events under His direction. God is
   content to wait, because He reigneth; man must be content to wait,
   because he believeth.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [3622] Jos. Jew. War iii. 10.

   [3623] If it were for no other reason than the mode in which the
   ex-general of the Galileans, Josephus, tells this story, he would
   deserve our execration.

   [3624] For the geographical details I must refer to the words of
   Stanley and Tristram, and to Bädeker's Palästina. I have not deemed it
   necessary to make special quotation of my authority in each case.

   [3625] Ps. xiii. 6.

   [3626] Josh. xi. 1-5.

   [3627] Deut. xxxiii. 23.

   [3628] 2 Sam. xx. 14.

   [3629] Tristram, Land of Israel, p. 586.

   [3630] So Dean Stanley, with his usual charm of language, though
   topographically not quite correctly (Sinai and Palestine, p. 395).

   [3631] Nothing in the above obliges us to infer, that the words of
   Peter's confession were spoken in Cæsarea itself. The place might have
   been in view or in the memory.

   [3632] 2 Pet. i. 19.

   [3633] St. John vii. 1-5.

   [3634] St. John vi. 60-66; comp. St. Matt. xv. 12.

   [3635] St. John vi. 67.

   [3636] St. Luke ix. 18.

   [3637] I confess, however, to strong doubts on this point. Legends of
   the hiding of the tabernacle, ark, and altar of incense on Mount Nebo
   by Jeremiah, were, indeed, combined with an expectation that these
   precious possessions would be restored in Messianic times (2 Macc. ii.
   1-7), but it is expressly added in ver. 8, that the Lord' Himself, and
   not the prophet, would show their place of concealment. Dean Plumptre's
   statement, that the Pharisees taught, and the Jews believed in, the
   doctrine of the transmigration of souls must have arisen from the
   misapprehension of what Josephus said, to which reference has already
   been made in the chapter on The Pharisees, Sadducees, and Essenes.' The
   first distinct mention of the reappearance of Jeremiah, along with
   Elijah, to restore the ark, &c., is in Josippon ben Gorion (lib. i. c.
   21), but here also only in the Cod. Munster., not in that used by
   Breithaupt. The age of the work of Josippon is in dispute; probably we
   may date it from the tenth century of our era. The only other testimony
   about the reappearance of Jeremiah is in 4 Esd. (2 Esd.) ii. 18. But
   the book is post-Christian, and, in that section especially, evidently
   borrows from the Christian Scriptures.

   [3638] On the vague fears of Herod, see vol. i. p. 675.

   [3639] A vision of Jeremiah in a dream was supposed to betoken
   chastisements (Ber. 57 e, line 7 from top).

   [3640] St. Mark viii. 27, 29.

   [3641] St. Matt. xvi. 16.

   [3642] Rom. x. 10.

   [3643] Comp. Rom. i. 4.

   [3644] St. Matt. xiv. 33.

   [3645] St. John vi. 69.

   [3646] This is the correct reading.

   [3647] St. Luke ix. 18.

   [3648] There could have been no anti-Petrine tendency in this, since it
   is equally omitted in the Petrine Gospel of St. Mark.

   [3649] Ecclus, xiv. 18; xvii. 31.

   [3650] 1 Cor. xv. 60; Gal. i. 16; Eph. vi. 12.

   [3651] St. John i. 42.

   [3652] Pesiqta, ed. Buber, p. 158 a, line 8 from bottom.

   [3653] See the remarks on Matthew-Levi in vol. i. ch. xvii. p. 514 of
   this Book.

   [3654] Thus, for example, Andrew was both 'Andras and {hebrew}
   (Anderai) manly,' brave.' A family Anderai is mentioned Jer. Kethub. 33
   a.

   [3655] Is. li 1.

   [3656] Yalkut on Numb. xxiii. 9, vol. i. p.243, b, last 6 lines, and c,
   first 3 lines.

   [3657] The same occurs in Shem. R. 15, only that there it is not only
   Abraham but the fathers' who are the Rocks' (the word used there is not
   Petra but Tsur) on whom the world is founded.

   [3658] Erub.19 a, Ber. R. 48.

   [3659] There was a strange idea about Jewish children who had died
   uncircumcised and the sinners in Israel exchanging their position in
   regard to circumcision. Could this, only spiritually understood and
   applied, have been present to the mind of St. Paul when he wrote Romans
   ii. 25, 26, last clauses?

   [3660] See Appendix XVIII.

   [3661] The reader will have no difficulty in recognizing a reference to
   the See of Rome, perhaps the Chair of St. Peter,' mixed up with the
   meaning of the name of Peter.

   [3662] The other views of the words are (a) that Christ pointed to
   Himself as the Rock, (b) or to Peter as a person, (c) or to Peter's
   confession.

   [3663] The other word is Edah. Comp. Bible Hist. vol. ii. p. 177, note.

   [3664] Ecclus. xxiv. 2.

   [3665] Comp. Acts vii. 38, and even St. Matt. xviii. 17.

   [3666] It is important to notice that the word is Hades, and not
   Gehenna. Dean Plumptre calls attention to the wonderful character of
   such a prophecy at a time when all around seemed to foreshadow only
   failure.

   [3667] Those who apply the words upon this Rock, &c.,' to Peter or to
   Christ must feel, that they introduce an abrupt and inelegant
   transition from one figure to another.

   [3668] Acts xv. 7.

   [3669] Acts x. 48.

   [3670] Jer. Ber. 3 b; Jer. Meg. 71 a; Jer. Sanh. 30 a.

   [3671] St. John xx. 23.

   [3672] The word used by St. Matthew (diestelato) means charged;' that
   by St. Mark (petmesen) implies rebuke; while the expression employed by
   St. Luke (pitimsas atos parngeile) conveys both rebuke and command.

   [3673] Otherwise they could not afterwards have been in such doubt
   about His Death and Resurrection.

   [3674] It is very remarkable that the expression les soi literally have
   mercy on thee,' is the exact transcript of the Rabbinic Chas lecha
   ({hebrew}). See Levy, Neuhebr. Wörterb. vol. ii, p. 85. The commoner
   expression is Chas ve Shalom, mercy and peace,' viz. be to thee, and
   the meaning is, God forbid, or God avert, a thing or its continuance.

   [3675] So the Greek literally.

   [3676] In those days the extreme suffering which a man might expect
   from the hostile power (the Romans) was the literal cross; in ours, it
   is suffering not less acute, the greatest which the present hostile
   power can inflict: really, through perhaps not literally, a cross.

   [3677] St. Matt. xvi. 24-27.

   [3678] This is an exact translation of the phase {hebrew}, which is of
   such very frequent occurrence in Rabbinic writings. See our remarks on
   St. John viii. 52 in Book IV. ch. viii.

   [3679] St. Matt. xvi. 28.
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

                                    Book IV.

   THE DESCENT:

   FROM THE MOUNT OF TRANSFIGURATION INTO

   THE VALLEY OF HUMILIATION AND DEATH.

   But God forbede but men shulde leve

   Wel mor thing then men han seen with eye

   Men shall not wenen euery thing a lye

   But yf him-selfe yt seeth or elles dooth

   For god wot thing is neuer the lasse sooth

   Thogh euery wight ne may it nat y-see.'

   Chaucer: Prologue to the Legend of Good Women.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER I.
THE TRANSFIGURATION.

   (St Matt. xvii. 1-8; St. Mark ix. 2-8; St. Luke ix. 28-36.)

   THE great confession of Peter, as the representative Apostle, had laid
   the foundations of the Church as such. In contradistinction to the
   varying opinions of even those best disposed towards Christ, it openly
   declared that Jesus was the Very Christ of God, the fulfilment of all
   Old Testament prophecy, the heir of Old Testament promise, the
   realisation of the Old Testament hope for Israel, and, in Israel, for
   all mankind. Without this confession, Christians might have been a
   Jewish sect, a religious party, or a school of thought, and Jesus a
   Teacher, Rabbi, Reformer, or Leader of men. But the confession which
   marked Jesus as the Christ, also constituted His followers the Church.
   It separated them, as it separated Him, from all around; it gathered
   them into one, even Christ; and it marked out the foundation on which
   the building made without hands was to rise. Never was illustrative
   answer so exact as this: On this Rock' - bold, outstanding,
   well-defined, immovable - will I build My Church.'

   Without doubt this confession also marked the high-point of the
   Apostles' faith. Never afterwards, till His Resurrection, did it reach
   so high. Nay, what followed seems rather a retrogression from it:
   beginning with their unwillingness to receive the announcement of His
   decease, and ending with their unreadiness to share His sufferings or
   to believe in His Resurrection. And if we realise the circumstances, we
   shall understand at least, their initial difficulties. Their highest
   faith had been followed by the most crushing disappointment; the
   confession that He was the Christ, by the announcement of His
   approaching Sufferings and Death at Jerusalem. The proclamation that He
   was the Divine Messiah had not been met by promises of the near glory
   of the Messianic Kingdom, but by announcements of certain, public
   rejection and seeming terrible defeat. Such possibilities had never
   seriously entered into their thoughts of the Messiah; and the
   declaration of the very worst, and that in the near future, made at
   such a moment, must have been a staggering blow to all their hopes. It
   was as if they had reached the topmost height, only to be cast thence
   into the lowest depth.

   On the other hand, it was necessary that at this stage in the History
   of the Christ, and immediately after His proclamation, the sufferings
   and the rejection of the Messiah should be prominently brought forward.
   It was needful for the Apostles, as the remonstrance of Peter showed;
   and, with reverence be it added, it was needful for the Lord Himself,
   as even His words to Peter seem to imply: Get thee behind Me; thou art
   a stumbling-block unto me.' For - as we have said - was not the
   remonstrance of the disciple in measure a re-enactment of the great
   initial Temptation by Satan after the forty days' fast in the
   wilderness? And, in view of all this, and of what immediately
   afterwards followed, we venture to say, it was fitting that an interval
   of six' days should intervene, or, as St. Luke puts it, including the
   day of Peter's confession and the night of Christ's Transfiguration,
   about eight days.' The Chronicle of these days is significantly left
   blank in the Gospels, but we cannot doubt, that it was filled up with
   thoughts and teaching concerning that Decease, leading up to the
   revelation on the Mount of Transfiguration.

   There are other blanks in the narrative besides that just referred to.
   We shall try to fill them up, as best we can. Perhaps it was the
   Sabbath when Peter's great confession was made; and the six days' of
   St. Matthew and St. Mark become the about eight days' of St. Luke, when
   we reckon from that Sabbath to the close of another, and suppose that
   at even the Saviour ascended the Mount of Transfiguration with the
   three Apostles: Peter, James, and John. There can scarcely be a
   reasonable doubt that Christ and His disciples had not left the
   neighborhood of Cæsarea, [3680] and hence, that the mountain' must have
   been one of the slopes of gigantic, snowy Hermon. In that quiet
   semi-Gentile retreat of Cæsarea Philippi could He best teach them, and
   they best learn, without interruption or temptation from Pharisees and
   Scribes, that terrible mystery of His Suffering. And on that gigantic
   mountain barrier which divided Jewish and Gentile lands, and while
   surveying, as Moses of old, the land to be occupied in all its extent,
   amidst the solemn solitude and majestic grandeur of Hermon, did it seem
   most fitting that, both by anticipatory fact and declamatory word, the
   Divine attestation should be given to the proclamation that He was the
   Messiah, and to this also, that, in a world that is in the power of sin
   and Satan, God's Elect must suffer, in order that, by ransoming, He may
   conquer it to God. But what a background, here, for the
   Transfiguration; what surroundings for the Vision, what echoes for the
   Voice from heaven!

   It was evening, [3681] and, as we have suggested, the evening after the
   Sabbath, when the Master and those three of His disciples, who were
   most closely linked to Him in heart and thought, climbed the path that
   led up to one of the heights of Hermon. In all the most solemn
   transactions of earth's history, there has been this selection and
   separation of the few to witness God's great doings. Alone with his
   son, as the destined sacrifice, did Abraham climb Moriah; alone did
   Moses behold, amid the awful loneliness of the wilderness, the burning
   bush, and alone on Sinai's height did he commune with God; alone was
   Elijah at Horeb, and with no other companion to view it than Elisha did
   he ascend into heaven. But Jesus, the Saviour of His people, could not
   be quite alone, save in those innermost transactions of His soul: in
   the great contest of His first Temptation, and in the solitary
   communings of His heart with God. These are mysteries which the
   outspread wings of Angels, as reverently they hide their faces, conceal
   from earth's, and even heaven's vision. But otherwise, in the most
   solemn turning-points of this history, Jesus could not be alone, and
   yet was alone with those three chosen ones, most receptive of Him, and
   most representative of the Church. It was so in the house of Jairus, on
   the Mount of Transfiguration, and in the Garden of Gethsemane.

   As St. Luke alone informs us, it was to pray' that Jesus took them
   apart up into that mountain. To pray,' no doubt in connection with
   those sayings;' since their reception required quite as much the direct
   teaching of the Heavenly Father, as had the previous confession of
   Peter, of which it was, indeed, the complement, the other aspect, the
   twin height. And the Transfiguration, with its attendant glorified
   Ministry and Voice from heaven, was God's answer to that prayer.

   What has already been stated, has convinced us that it could not have
   been to one of the highest peaks of Hermon, as most modern writers
   suppose, that Jesus led His companions. There are three such peaks:
   those north and south, of about equal height (9,400 feet above the sea,
   and nearly 11,000 above the Jordan valley), are only 500 paces distant
   from each other, while the third, to the west (about 100 feet lower),
   is separated from the others by a narrow valley. Now, to climb the top
   of Hermon is, even from the nearest point, an Alpine ascent, trying and
   fatiguing, which would occupy a whole day (six hours in the ascent and
   four in the descent), and require provisions of food and water; while,
   from the keenness of the air, it would be impossible to spend the night
   on the top. [3682] To all this there is no allusion in the text, nor
   slightest hint of either difficulties or preparations, such as
   otherwise would have been required. Indeed, a contrary impression is
   left on the mind.

   Up into an high mountain apart,' to pray.' The Sabbath-sun had set, and
   a delicious cool hung in the summer air, as Jesus an the three
   commenced their ascent. From all parts of the land, far as Jerusalem or
   Tyre, the one great object in view must always have been snow-clad
   Hermon. And now it stood out before them - as, to the memory of the
   traveller in the West, Monte Rosa or Mont Blanc [3683] - in all the
   wondrous glory of a sunset: first rose-colored, then deepening red,
   next the death-like pallor, and the darkness relieved by the snow, in
   quick succession.' [3684] From high up there, as one describes it,
   [3685] a deep ruby flush came over all the scene, and warm purple
   shadows crept slowly on. The sea of Galilee was lit up with a delicate
   greenish-yellow hue, between its dim walls of hill. The flush died out
   in a few minutes, and a pale, steel-coloured shade succeeded. . . . A
   long pyramidal shadow slid down to the eastern foot of Hermon, and
   crept across the great plain; Damascus was swallowed up by it; and
   finally the pointed end of the shadow stood out distinctly against the
   sky - a dusky cone of dull colour against the flush of the afterglow.
   It was the shadow of the mountain itself, stretching away for seventy
   miles across the plain - the most marvellous shadow perhaps to be seen
   anywhere. The sun underwent strange changes of shape in the thick
   vapours - now almost square, now like a domed Temple - until at length
   it slid into the sea, and went out like a blue spark.' And overhead
   shone out in the blue summer-sky, one by one, the stars in Eastern
   brilliancy. We know not the exact direction which the climbers took,
   nor how far their journey went. But there is only one road that leads
   from Cæsarea Philippi to Hermon, and we cannot be mistaken in following
   it. First, among vine-clad hills stocked with mulberry, apricot and
   fig-trees; then, through corn-fields where the pear tree supplants the
   fig; next, through oak coppice, and up rocky ravines to where the soil
   is dotted with dwarf shrubs. And if we pursue the ascent, it still
   becomes steeper, till the first ridge of snow is crossed, after which
   turfy banks, gravelly slopes, and broad snow-patches alternate. The top
   of Hermon in summer - and it can only be ascended in summer or autumn -
   is free from snow, but broad patches run down the sides expanding as
   they descend. To the very summit it is well earthed; to 500 feet below
   it, studded with countless plants, higher up with dwarf clumps. [3686]

   As they ascend in the cool of that Sabbath evening, the keen mountain
   air must have breathed strength into the climbers, and the scent of
   snow - for which the parched tongue would long in summer's heat [3687]
   - have refreshed them. We know not what part may have been open to them
   of the glorious panorama from Hermon embracing as it does a great part
   of Syria from the sea to Damascus, from the Lebanon and the gorge of
   the Litany to the mountains of Moab; or down the Jordan valley to the
   Dead Sea; or over Galilee, Samaria, and on to Jerusalem and beyond it.
   But such darkness as that of a summer's night would creep on. And now
   the moon shone out in dazzling splendour, cast long shadows over the
   mountain, and lit up the broad patches of snow, reflecting their
   brilliancy on the objects around.

   On that mountain-top He prayed.' Although the text does not expressly
   state it, we can scarcely doubt, that He prayed with them, and still
   less, that He prayed for them, as did the Prophet for his servant, when
   the city was surrounded by Syrian horsemen: that his eyes might be
   opened to behold heaven's host - the far more that are with us than
   they that are with them.' [3688] And, with deep reverence be it said,
   for Himself also did Jesus pray. For, as the pale moonlight shone on
   the fields of snow in the deep passes of Hermon, so did the light of
   the coming night shine on the cold glitter of Death in the near future.
   He needed prayer, that in it His Soul might lie calm and still -
   perfect, in the unruffled quiet of His Self-surrender, the absolute
   rest of His Faith, and the victory of His Sacrificial Obedience. And He
   needed prayer also, as the introduction to, and preparation for, His
   Transfiguration. Truly, He stood on Hermon. It was the highest ascent,
   the widest prospect into the past, present, and future, in His Earthly
   Life. Yet was it but Hermon at night. And this is the human, or rather
   the Theanthropic view of this prayer, and of its consequence.

   As we understand it, the prayer with them had ceased, or it had merged
   into silent prayer of each, or Jesus now prayed alone and apart, when
   what gives this scene such a truly human and truthful aspect ensued. It
   was but natural for these men of simple habits, at night, and after the
   long ascent, and in the strong mountain-air, to be heavy with sleep.
   And we also know it as a psychological fact, that, in quick reaction
   after the overpowering influence of the strongest emotions, drowsiness
   would creep over their limbs and senses. They were heavy - weighted -
   with sleep,' as afterwards at Gethsemane their eyes were weighted.
   [3689] [3690] Yet they struggled with it, and it is quite consistent
   with experience, that they should continue in that state of
   semi-stupor, during what passed between Moses and Elijah and Christ,
   and also be fully awake,' [3691] to see His Glory, and the two men who
   stood with Him.' In any case this descriptive trait, so far from being
   (as negative critics would have it), a later embellishment,' could only
   have formed part of a primitive account, since it is impossible to
   conceive any rational motive for its later addition. [3692]

   What they saw was their Master, while praying, transformed.' [3693] The
   form of God' shone through the form of a servant;' the appearance of
   His Face became other,' [3694] [3695] it did shine as the sun.' [3696]
   [3697] Nay, the whole Figure seemed bathed in light, the very garments
   whiter far than the snow on which the moon shone [3698] - so as no
   fuller on earth can white them,' [3699] glittering,' [3700] white as
   the light.' And more than this they saw and heard. They saw with Him
   two men,' [3701] whom, in their heightened sensitiveness to spiritual
   phenomena, they could have no difficulty in recognising, by such of
   their conversation as they heard, as Moses and Elijah. [3702] The
   column was now complete: the base in the Law; the shaft in that
   Prophetism of which Elijah was the great Representative - in his first
   Mission, as fulfilling the primary object of the Prophets: to call
   Israel back to God; and, in his second Mission, this other aspect of
   the Prophets' work, to prepare the way for the Kingdom of God; and the
   apex in Christ Himself - a unity completely fitting together in all its
   parts. And they heard also, that they spake of His Exodus - outgoing -
   which He was about to fulfil at Jerusalem.' [3703] Although the term
   Exodus,' outgoing,' occurs otherwise for death,' [3704] we must bear in
   mind its meaning as contrasted with that in which the same Evangelic
   writer designates the Birth of Christ, as His incoming.' [3705] In
   truth, it implies not only His Decease, but its manner, and even His
   Resurrection and Ascension. In that sense we can understand the better,
   as on the lips of Moses and Elijah, this about His fulfilling that
   Exodus: accomplishing it in all its fulness, and so completing Law and
   Prophecy, type and prediction.

   And still that night of glory had not ended. A strange peculiarity has
   been noticed about Hermon in the extreme rapidity of the formation of
   cloud on the summit. In a few minutes a thick cap forms over the top of
   the mountain, and as quickly disperses and entirely disappears.' [3706]
   It almost seems as if this, like the natural position of Hermon itself,
   was, if not to be connected with, yet, so to speak, to form the
   background to what was to be enacted. Suddenly a cloud passed over the
   clear brow of the mountain - not an ordinary, but a luminous cloud,' a
   cloud uplit, filled with light. As it laid itself between Jesus and the
   two Old Testament Representatives, it parted, and presently enwrapped
   them. Most significant is it, suggestive of the Presence of God,
   revealing, yet concealing - a cloud, yet luminous. And this cloud
   overshadowed the disciples: the shadow of its light fell upon them. A
   nameless terror seized them. Fain would they have held what seemed for
   ever to escape their grasp. Such vision had never before been
   vouchsafed to mortal man as had fallen on their sight; they had already
   heard Heaven's converse; they had tasted Angels' Food, the Bread of His
   Presence. Could the vision not be perpetuated - at least prolonged? In
   the confusion of their terror they knew not how otherwise to word it,
   than by an expression of ecstatic longing for the continuance of what
   they had, of their earnest readiness to do their little best, if they
   could but secure it - make booths for the heavenly Visitants [3707] -
   and themselves wait in humble service and reverent attention on what
   their dull heaviness had prevented their enjoying and profiting by, to
   the full. They knew and felt it: Lord' - Rabbi' - Master' - it is good
   for us to be here' - and they longed to have it; yet how to secure it,
   their terror could not suggest, save in the language of ignorance and
   semi-conscious confusion. They wist not what they said.' In presence of
   the luminous cloud that enwrapt those glorified Saints, they spake from
   out that darkness which compassed them about.

   And now the light-cloud was spreading; presently its fringe fell upon
   them. [3708] Heaven's awe was upon them: for the touch of the heavenly
   strains, almost to breaking, the bond betwixt body and soul. And a
   Voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is My Beloved [3709] Son:
   hear Him.' It had needed only One other Testimony to seal it all; One
   other Voice, to give both meaning and music to what had been the
   subject of Moses' and Elijah's speaking. That Voice had now come - not
   in testimony to any fact, but to a Person - that of Jesus as His
   Beloved Son,' [3710] and in gracious direction to them. They heard it,
   falling on their faces in awestruck worship.

   How long the silence had lasted, and the last rays of the cloud had
   passed, we know not. Presently, it was a gentle touch that roused them.
   It was the Hand of Jesus, as with words of comfort He reassured them:
   Arise, and be not afraid.' And as, startled, [3711] they looked round
   about them, they saw no man save Jesus only. The Heavenly Visitants had
   gone, the last glow of the light-cloud had faded away, the echoes of
   Heaven's Voice had died out. It was night, and they were on the Mount
   with Jesus, and with Jesus only.

   Is it truth or falsehood; was it reality or vision, or part of both,
   this Transfiguration-scene on Hermon? One thing, at least, must be
   evident: if it be a true narrative, it cannot possibly describe a
   merely subjective vision without objective reality. But, in that case,
   it would be not only difficult, but impossible, to separate one part of
   the narrative - the appearance of Moses and Elijah - from the other,
   the Transfiguration of the Lord, and to assign to the latter objective
   reality, [3712] while regarding the former as merely a vision. But is
   the account true? It certainly represents primitive tradition, since it
   is not only told by all the three Evangelists, but referred to in 2
   Peter i. 16-18, [3713] and evidently implied in the words of St. John,
   both in his Gospel, [3714] and in the opening of his First Epistle.
   Few, if any would be so bold as to assert that the whole of this
   history had been invented by the three Apostles, who professed to have
   been its witnesses. Nor can any adequate motive be imagined for its
   invention. It could not have been intended to prepare the Jews for the
   Crucifixion of the Messiah, since it was to be kept a secret till after
   His Resurrection; and, after the event, it could not have been
   necessary for the assurance of those who believed in the Resurrection,
   while to others it would carry no weight. Again, the special traits of
   this history are inconsistent with the theory of its invention. In a
   legend, the witnesses of such an event would not have been represented
   as scarcely awake, and not knowing what they said. Manifestly, the
   object would have been to convey the opposite impression. Lastly, it
   cannot be too often repeated, that, in view of the manifold witness of
   the Evangelists, amply confirmed in all essentials by the Epistles -
   preached, lived, and bloodsealed by the primitive Church, and handed
   down as primitive tradition - the most untenable theory seems that
   which imputes intentional fraud to their narratives, or, to put it
   otherwise, non-belief on the part of the narrators of what they
   related.

   But can we suppose, if not fraud, yet mistake on the part of these
   witnesses, so that an event, otherwise naturally explicable, may,
   through their ignorance or imaginativeness, have assumed the
   proportions of this narrative? The investigation will be the more easy,
   that, as regards all the main features of the narrative, the three
   Evangelists are entirely agreed. Instead of examining in detail the
   various rationalistic attempts made to explain this history on natural
   grounds, it seems sufficient for refutation to ask the intelligent
   reader to attempt imagining any natural event, which by any possibility
   could have been mistaken for what the eyewitnesses related, and the
   Evangelists recorded.

   There still remains the mythical theory of explanation, which, if it
   could be supported, would be the most attractive among those of a
   negative character. But we cannot imagine a legend without some
   historical motive or basis for its origination. The legend must be in
   character - that is, congruous to the ideas and expectancies
   entertained. Such a history as that of the Transfiguration could not
   have been a pure invention; but if such or similar expectancies had
   existed about the Messiah, then such a legend might, without
   intentional fraud, have, by gradual accretion, gathered around the
   Person of Him Who was regarded as the Christ. And this is the rationale
   of the so-called mythical theory. But all such ideas vanish at the
   touch of history. There was absolutely no Jewish expectancy that could
   have bodied itself forth in a narrative like that of the
   Transfiguration. To begin with the accessories, the idea, that the
   coming of Moses was to be connected with that of the Messiah, rests not
   only on an exaggeration, but on a dubious and difficult passage in the
   Jerusalem Targum. [3715] [3716] It is quite true, that the face of
   Moses shone when he came down from the Mount; but, if this is to be
   regarded as the basis of the Transfiguration of Jesus, the presence of
   Elijah would not be in point. On the other hand - to pass over other
   inconsistencies - anything more un-Jewish could scarcely be imagined
   than a Messiah crucified, or that Moses and Elijah should appear to
   converse with Him on such a Death! If it be suggested, that the purpose
   was to represent the Law and the Prophets as bearing testimony to the
   Dying of the Messiah, we fully admit it. Certainly, this is the New
   Testament and the true idea concerning the Christ; but equally
   certainly, it was not and is not, that of the Jews concerning the
   Messiah. [3717]

   If it is impossible to regard this narrative as a fraud; hopeless, to
   attempt explaining it as a natural event; and utterly unaccountable,
   when viewed in connection with contemporary thought or expectancy - in
   short, if all negative theories fail, let us see whether, and how on
   the supposition of its reality, it will fit into the general narrative.
   To begin with: if our previous investigations have rightly led us up to
   this result, that Jesus was the Very Christ of God, then this event can
   scarcely be described as miraculous - at least in such a history. If we
   would not expect it, it is certainly that which might have been
   expected. For, first, it was (and at that particular period) a
   necessary stage in the Lord's History, viewed in the light in which the
   Gospels present Him. Secondly, it was needful for His own
   strengthening, even as the Ministry of the Angels after the Temptation.
   Thirdly, it was good' for these three disciples to be there: not only
   for future witness, but for present help, and also with special
   reference to Peter's remonstrance against Christ's death-message.
   Lastly, the Voice from heaven, in hearing of His disciples, was of the
   deepest importance. Coming after the announcement of His Death and
   Passion, it sealed that testimony, and, in view of it, proclaimed Him
   as the Prophet to Whom Moses had bidden Israel hearken, [3718] while it
   repeated the heavenly utterance concerning Him made at His Baptism.
   [3719]

   But, for us all, the interest of this history lies not only in the
   past; it is in the present also, and in the future. To all ages it is
   like the vision of the bush burning, in which was the Presence of God.
   And it points us forward to that transformation, of which that of
   Christ was the pledge, when this corruptible shall put on
   incorruption.' As of old the beacon-fires, lighted from hill to hill,
   announced to them far away from Jerusalem the advent of solemn feast,
   so does the glory kindled on the Mount of Transfiguration shine through
   the darkness of the world, and tell of the Resurrection-Day.

   On Hermon the Lord and His disciples had reached the highest point in
   this history. Henceforth it is a descent into the Valley of Humiliation
   and Death!
     __________________________________________________________________

   [3680] According to an old tradition, Christ had left Cæsarea Philippi,
   and the scene of the Transfiguration was Mount Tabor. But (1) there is
   no notice of His departure, such as in generally made by St. Mark; (2)
   on the contrary, it is mentioned by St. Mark as after the
   Transfiguration (ix. 30); (3) Mount Tabor was at that time crowned by a
   fortified city, which would render it unsuitable for the scene of the
   Transfiguration.

   [3681] This is implied not only in the disciples being heavy with
   sleep, but in the morning scene (St. Luke ix. 37) which followed.

   [3682] Canon Tristram writes: We were before long painfully affected by
   the rarity of the atmosphere.' In general, our description is derived
   from Canon Tristram (Land of Israel'), Captain Conder (Tent-Work in
   Palestine'), and Bädeker-Socin's Palästina, p. 354.

   [3683] One of its names, Shenir (Deut. iii. 9; Cant. iv. 8; Ezek.
   xxvii. 5) means Mont Blanc. In Rabbinic writings it is designated as
   the snow-mountain.'

   [3684] Tristram, u.s., p. 607.

   [3685] Conder, u.s., vol. i. p. 264.

   [3686] Our description is based on the graphic account of the ascent by
   Canon Tristram (u.s. pp. 609-613).

   [3687] Prov. xxv. 13.

   [3688] 2 Kings vi. 16, 17.

   [3689] St. Matt. xxvi. 43; St. Mark xiv. 40.

   [3690] The word is the same. It also occurs in a figurative sense in 2
   Cor. i. 8; v. 4; 1 Tim. v. 16.

   [3691] Meyer strongly advocates the rendering: but having kept awake.'
   See, however, Godet's remarks ad loc.

   [3692] Meyer is in error in supposing that the tradition, on which St.
   Luke's account is founded, amplifies the narratives of St. Matthew and
   St. Mark. With Canon Cook I incline to the view of Resch, that, judging
   from the style, &c., St. Luke derived this notice from the same source
   as the materials for the large portion from ch. ix. 51 to xviii. 17.

   [3693] On the peculiar meaning of the word morph comp. Bishop Lightfoot
   on Philip. pp. 127-133.

   [3694] St. Luke.

   [3695] This expression of St. Luke, so far from indicating
   embellishment of the other accounts, marks, if anything, rather
   retrogression.

   [3696] St. Matthew.

   [3697] It is scarcely a Rabbinic parallel - hardly an illustration -
   that in Rabbinic writings also Moses' face before his death is said to
   have shone as the sun, for the comparison is a Biblical one. Such
   language would, of course, be familiar to St. Matthew.

   [3698] The words as snow,' in St. Mark ix. 3, are, however, spurious -
   an early gloss.

   [3699] St. Mark.

   [3700] St. Luke.

   [3701] St. Luke.

   [3702] Godet points out the emphatic meaning of otines in St. Luke ix.
   30=quippe qui: they were none other than.

   [3703] St. Luke.

   [3704] In some of the Apocrypha and Josephus, as well as in 2 Pet. i.
   15.

   [3705] esodos, Acts xiii. 24.

   [3706] Conder, u.s. vol. i. p 265.

   [3707] Wünsche (ad loc.) quotes as it seems to me, very inaptly, the
   Rabbinic realistic idea of the fulfilment of Is. iv. 5, 6, that God
   would make for each of the righteous seven booths, varying according to
   their merits (Baba B. 75 a) or else one booth for each (Bemid. R. 21,
   ed. Warsh. p. 85 a). Surely, there can be no similarity between this
   and the words of Peter.

   [3708] A comparison of the narratives leaves on us the impression that
   the disciples also were touched by the cloud. I cannot agree with
   Godet, that the question depends on whether we adopt in St. Luke ix. 34
   the reading of the T.R. kenous, or that of the Alex. atos.

   [3709] The more correct reading in St. Luke seems to be Elect Son.'

   [3710] St. Matthew adds, in Whom I am well pleased.' The reason of this
   fuller account is not difficult to understand.

   [3711] St. Mark indicates this by the words: And suddenly, when they
   looked round about.'

   [3712] This part of the argument is well worked out by Meyer, but his
   arguments for regarding the appearance of Moses and Elijah as merely a
   vision, because the former at least had no resurrection-body, are very
   weak. Are we sure, that disembodied spirits have no kind of corporeity,
   or that they cannot assume a visible appearance?

   [3713] Even if that Epistle were not St. Peter's, it would still
   represent the most ancient tradition.

   [3714] St. John i. 14.

   [3715] On Ex. xii.

   [3716] Moses and the Messiah are placed side by side, the one as coming
   from the desert, the other from Rome. This one shall lead at the head
   of a cloud, and that one shall lead at the head of a cloud, the Memra
   of Jehovah leading between them twain, and they going' - as I would
   render it - as one' (Ve-innun mehalkhin kachada), or, as some render
   it, they shall walk together.' The question here arises, whether this
   is to be understood as merely figurative language, or to be taken
   literally. If literally, does the Targum refer to a kind of heavenly
   vision, or to something that was actually to take place, a kind of
   realism of what Philo had anticipated (see vol. i. p. 82)? It may have
   been in this sense that Fr. Tayler renders the words by in culmine
   nubis equitabit.' But on careful consideration the many and obvious
   incongruities involved in it seem to render a literal interpretation
   well nigh impossible. But all seems not only plain but accordant with
   other Rabbinic teaching (see vol. i. p. 176), if we regard the passage
   as only indicating a parallelism between the first and the second
   Deliverer and the deliverances wrought by them. Again, although the
   parallel is often drawn in Rabbinic writings between Moses and Elijah,
   I know only one passage, and that a dubious one, in which they are
   conjoined in the days of the Messiah. It occurs in Deb. R. 3 (seven
   lines before the close of it), and is to this effect, that, because
   Moses had in this world given his life for Israel, therefore in the Æon
   to come, when God would send Elijah the prophet, they two should come,
   keachath, either together' or as one,' the proof passage being Nah. i.
   3, the whirlwind' there referring to Moses, and the storm' to Elijah.
   Surely, no one would found on such a basis a Jewish mythical origin of
   the Transfiguration.

   [3717] Godet has also aptly pointed out, that the injunction of silence
   on the disciples as to this event is incompatible with the mythical
   theory. It could only point to a real event, not to a myth.

   [3718] Deut. xviii. 15.

   [3719] St. Matt. iii. 17.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER II.
ON THE MORROW OF THE TRANSFIGURATION

   (St. Matt. xvii. 9-21; St. Mark ix. 9-29: St. Luke ix. 37-43.)

   IT was the early dawn of another summer's day when the Master and His
   disciples turned their steps once more towards the plain. They had seen
   His Glory; they had had the most solemn witness which, as Jews, the
   could have; and they had gained a new knowledge of the Old Testament.
   It all bore reference to the Christ, and it spake of His Decease.
   Perhaps on that morning better than in the previous night did they
   realise the vision, and feel its calm happiness. It was to their souls
   like the morning-air which they breathed on that mountain.

   It would be only natural, that their thoughts should also wander to the
   companions and fellow-disciples whom, on the previous evening, they had
   left in the valley beneath. How much they had to tell them, and how
   glad they would be of the tidings they would hear! That one night had
   for ever answered so many questions about that most hard of all His
   sayings: concerning His Rejection and violent Death at Jerusalem; it
   had shed heavenly light into that terrible gloom! They - at least these
   three - had formerly simply submitted to the saying of Christ because
   it was His, without understanding it; but now they had learned to see
   it in quite another light. How they must have longed to impart it to
   those whose difficulties were at least as great, perhaps greater, who
   perhaps had not yet recovered from the rude shock which their Messianic
   thoughts and hopes had so lately received. We think here especially of
   those, whom, so far as individuality of thinking is concerned, we may
   designate as the representative three, and the counterpart of the three
   chosen Apostles: Philip, who ever sought firm standing-ground for
   faith; Thomas, who wanted evidence for believing; and Judas, whose
   burning Jewish zeal for a Jewish Messiah had already begun to consume
   his own soul, as the wind had driven back upon himself the flame that
   had been kindled. Every question of a Philip, every doubt of a Thomas,
   every despairing wild outburst of a Judas, would be met by what they
   had now to tell.

   But it was not to be so. Evidently, it was not an event to be made
   generally known, either to the people or even to the great body of the
   disciples. They could not have understood its real meaning; they would
   have misunderstood, and in their ignorance misapplied to carnal Jewish
   purposes, its heavenly lessons. But even the rest of the Apostles must
   not know of it: that they were not qualified to witness it, proved that
   they were not prepared to hear of it. We cannot for a moment imagine,
   that there was favouritism in the selection of certain Apostles to
   share in what the others might not witness. It was not because these
   were better loved, but because they were better prepared [3720] - more
   fully receptive, more readily acquiescing, more entirely
   self-surrendering. Too often we commit in our estimate the error of
   thinking of them exclusively as Apostles, not as disciples; as our
   teachers, not as His learners, with all the failings of men, the
   prejudices of Jews, and the unbelief natural to us all, but assuming in
   each individual special forms, and appearing as characteristic
   weaknesses.

   And so it was that, when the silence of that morning-descent was
   broken, the Master laid on them the command to tell no man of this
   vision, till after the Son of Man were risen from the dead. This
   mysterious injunction of silence affords another presumptive evidence
   against the invention, or the rationalistic explanations, or the
   mythical origin of this narrative. It also teaches two further lessons.
   The silence thus enjoined was the first step into the Valley of
   Humiliation. It was also a test, whether they had understood the
   spiritual teaching of the vision. And their strict obedience, not
   questioning even the grounds of the injunction, proved that they had
   learned it. So entire, indeed, was their submission, that they dared
   not even ask the Master about a new and seemingly greater mystery than
   they had yet heard: the meaning of the Son of Man rising from the Dead.
   [3721] Did it refer to the general Resurrection; was the Messiah to be
   the first to rise from the dead, and to waken the other sleepers - or
   was it only a figurative expression for His triumph and vindication?
   Evidently, they knew as yet nothing of Christ's Personal Resurrection
   as separate from that of others, and on the third day after His Death.
   And yet it was so near! So ignorant were they, and so unprepared! And
   they dared not ask the Master of it. This much they had already
   learned: not to question the mysteries of the future, but simply to
   receive them. But in their inmost hearts they kept that saying - as the
   Virgin-Mother had kept many a like saying - carrying it about with
   them' as a precious living germ that would presently spring up and bear
   fruit, or as that which would kindle into light and chase all darkness.
   But among themselves, then and many times afterwards, in secret
   converse, they questioned what the rising again from the dead should
   mean. [3722]

   There was another question, and it they might ask of Jesus, since it
   concerned not the mysteries of the future, but the lessons of the past.
   Thinking of that vision, of the appearance of Elijah and of his
   speaking of the Death of the Messiah, why did the Scribes say that
   Elijah should first come - and, as was the universal teaching, for the
   purpose of restoring all things? If, as they had seen, Elijah had come,
   but only for a brief season, not to abide, along with Moses, as they
   had fondly wished when they proposed to rear them booths; if he had
   come not to the people but to Christ, in view of only them three - and
   they were not even to tell of it; and, if it had been, not to prepare
   for a spiritual restoration, but to speak of what implied the opposite:
   the Rejection and violent Death of the Messiah - then, were the Scribes
   right in their teaching, and what was its real meaning? The question
   afforded the opportunity of presenting to the disciples not only a
   solution of their difficulties, but another insight into the necessity
   of His Rejection and Death. They had failed to distinguish between the
   coming of Elijah and its alternative sequence. Truly Elias cometh
   first' - and Elijah had come already' in the person of John the
   Baptist. The Divinely intended object of Elijah's coming was to restore
   all things.' This, of course, implied a moral element in the submission
   of the people to God, and their willingness to receive his message.
   Otherwise there was this Divine alternative in the prophecy of Malachi:
   Lest I come to smite the land with the ban' (Cherem). Elijah had come;
   if the people had received his message, there would have been the
   promised restoration of all things. As the Lord had said on a previous
   occasion [3723] : If ye are willing to receive him, [3724] this is
   Elijah, which is to come.' Similarly, if Israel had received the
   Christ, He would have gathered them as a hen her chickens for
   protection; He would not only have been, but have visibly appeared as,
   their King. But Israel did not know their Elijah, and did unto him
   whatsoever they listed; and so, in logical sequence, would the Son of
   Man also suffer of them. And thus has the other part of Malachi's
   prophecy been fulfilled: and the land of Israel been smitten with the
   ban. [3725]

   Amidst such conversation the descent from the mountain was
   accomplished. Presently they found themselves in view of a scene, which
   only too clearly showed that unfitness of the disciples for the
   heavenly vision of the preceding night, to which reference has been
   made. For, amidst the divergence of details between the narratives of
   St. Matthew and St. Mark, and, so far as it goes, that of St. Luke, the
   one point in which they almost literally and emphatically accord is,
   when the Lord speaks of them, in language of bitter disappointment and
   sorrow, as a generation with whose want of faith, notwithstanding all
   that they had seen and learned, He had still to bear, expressly
   attributing [3726] their failure in restoring the lunatick, to their
   unbelief.' [3727]

   It was, indeed, a terrible contrast between the scene below and that
   vision of Moses and Elijah, when they had spoken of the Exodus of the
   Christ, and the Divine Voice had attested the Christ from out the
   luminous cloud. A concourse of excited people - among them once more
   Scribes,' who had tracked the Lord and come upon His weakest disciples
   in the hour of their greatest weakness - is gathered about a man who
   had in vain brought his lunatick son for healing. He is eagerly
   questioned by the multitude, and moodily answers; or, as it might
   almost seem from St. Matthew, [3728] he is leaving the crowd and those
   from whom he had vainly sought help. This was the hour of triumph for
   these Scribes. The Master had refused the challenge in Dalmanutha, and
   the disciples, accepting it, had signally failed. There they were,
   questioning with them' noisily, discussing this and all similar
   phenomena, but chiefly the power, authority, and reality of the Master.
   It reminds us of Israel's temptation in the wilderness, and we should
   scarcely wonder, if they had even questioned the return of Jesus, as
   they of old did that of Moses.

   At that very moment, Jesus appeared with the three. We cannot wonder
   that, when they saw Him, they were greatly amazed, [3729] and running
   to Him saluted Him.' [3730] He came - as always, and to us also -
   unexpectedly, most opportunely, and for the real decision of the
   question in hand. [3731] There was immediate calm, preceding victory.
   Before the Master's inquiry about the cause of this violent discussion
   could be answered, the man who had been its occasion came forward. With
   lowliest gesture (kneeling to Him' [3732] ) he addressed Jesus. At last
   he had found Him, Whom he had come to seek; and, if possibility of help
   there were, oh! let it be granted. Describing the symptoms of his son's
   distemper, which were those of epilepsy and mania - although both the
   father and Jesus rightly attributed the disease to demoniac influence -
   he told, how he had come in search of the Master, but only found the
   nine disciples, and how they had presumptuously attempted, and signally
   failed in the attempted cure.

   Why had they failed? For the same reason, that they had not been taken
   into the Mount of Transfiguration - because they were faithless,'
   because of their unbelief.' They had that outward faith of the probatum
   est' (it is proved'); they believed because, and what, they had seen;
   and they were drawn closer to Christ - at least almost all of them,
   though in varying measure - as to Him Who, and Who alone, spake the
   words of eternal life,' which, with wondrous power, had swayed their
   souls, or laid them to heaven's rest. But that deeper, truer faith,
   which consisted in the spiritual view of that which was the unseen in
   Christ, and that higher power, which flows from such apprehension, they
   had not. In such faith as they had, they spake, repeated forms of
   exorcism, tried to imitate their Master. But they signally failed, as
   did those seven Jewish Priest-sons at Ephesus. And it was intended that
   they should fail, that so to them and to us the higher meaning of faith
   as contrasted with power, the inward as contrasted with the merely
   outward qualification, might appear. In that hour of crisis, in the
   presence of questioning Scribes and a wondering populace, and in the
   absence of the Christ, only one power could prevail, that of spiritual
   faith; and that kind' could not come out but by prayer.' [3733]

   It is this lesson, viewed also in organic connection with all that had
   happened since the great temptation at Dalmanutha, which furnishes the
   explanation of the whole history. For one moment we have a glimpse into
   the Saviour's soul: the poignant sorrow of His disappointment at the
   unbelief of the faithless and perverse generation,' [3734] with which
   He had so long borne; the infinite patience and condescension, the
   Divine need be' of His having thus to bear even with His own, together
   with the deep humiliation and keen pang which it involved; and the
   almost home-longing, as one has called it, [3735] of His soul. These
   are mysteries to adore. The next moment Jesus turns Him to the father.
   At His command the lunatick is brought to Him. In the Presence of
   Jesus, and in view of the coming contest between Light and Darkness,
   one of those paroxysms of demoniac operation ensues, such as we have
   witnessed on all similar occasions. This was allowed to pass in view of
   all. But both this, and the question as to the length of time the
   lunatick had been afflicted, together with the answer, and the
   description of the dangers involved, which it elicited, were evidently
   intended to point the lesson of the need of a higher faith. To the
   father, however, who knew not the mode of treatment by the Heavenly
   Physician, they seemed like the questions of an earthly healer who must
   consider the symptoms before he could attempt to cure. If Thou canst do
   anything, have compassion on us, and help us.'


   It was but natural - and yet it was the turning-point in this whole
   history, alike as regarded the healing of the lunatick, the better
   leading of his father, the teaching of the disciples, and that of the
   multitude and the Scribes. There is all the calm majesty of Divine
   self-consciousness, yet without trace of self-assertion, when Jesus,
   utterly ignoring the if Thou canst,' turns to the man and tells him
   that, while with the Divine Helper there is the possibility of all
   help, it is conditioned by a possibility in ourselves, by man's
   receptiveness, by his faith. Not, if the Christ can do anything or even
   everything, but, If thou canst believe, [3736] all things are possible
   to him that believeth.' [3737] The question is not, it can never be, as
   the man had put it; it must not even be answered, but ignored. It must
   ever be, not what He can, but what we can. When the infinite fulness is
   poured forth, as it ever is in Christ, it is not the oil that is
   stayed, but the vessels which fail. He giveth richly, inexhaustibly,
   but not mechanically; there is only one condition, the moral one of the
   presence of absolute faith - our receptiveness. And so these words have
   to all time remained the teaching to every individual striver in the
   battle of the higher life, and to the Church as a whole - the in hoc
   signo vinces' [3738] over the Cross, the victory that overcometh the
   world, even our faith.

   It was a lesson, of which the reality was attested by the hold which it
   took on the man's whole nature. While by one great outgoing of his soul
   he overleapt all, to lay hold on the one fact set before him, he felt
   all the more the dark chasm of unbelief behind him, but he also clung
   to that Christ, Whose teaching of faith had shown him, together with
   the possibility, the source of faith. Thus through the felt unbelief of
   faith he attained true faith by laying hold on the Divine Saviour, when
   he cried out and said: [3739] Lord, I believe; help Thou mine
   unbelief.' [3740] These words have remained historic, marking all true
   faith, which, even as faith, is conscious of, nay implies, unbelief,
   but brings it to Christ for help. The most bold leap of faith and the
   timid resting at His Feet, the first beginning and the last ending of
   faith, have alike this as their watchword.

   Such cry could not be, and never is, unheard. It was real demoniac
   influence which, continuing with this man from childhood onwards, had
   well-nigh crushed all moral individuality in him. In his many lucid
   intervals these many years, since he had grown from a child into a
   youth, he had never sought to shake off the yoke and regain his moral
   individuality, nor would he even now have come, if his father had not
   brought him. If any, this narrative shows the view which the Gospels
   and Jesus took of what are described as the demonised.' It was a
   reality, and not accommodation to Jewish views, when, as He saw the
   multitude running together, He rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to
   him: Dumb and deaf spirit, I command thee, come out of him, and no more
   come into him.'

   Another and a more violent paroxysm, so that the bystanders almost
   thought him dead. But the unclean spirit had come out of him. And with
   strong gentle Hand the Saviour lifted him, and with loving gesture
   delivered him to his father.

   All things had been possible to faith; not to that external belief of
   the disciples, which failed to reach that kind,' [3741] and ever fails
   to reach such kind, but to true spiritual faith in Him. And so it is to
   each of us individually, and to the Church, to all time. That kind' -
   whether it be of sin, of lust, of the world, or of science falsely so
   called, of temptation, or of materialism - cometh not out by any of our
   ready-made formulas or dead dogmas. Not so are the flesh and the Devil
   vanquished; not so is the world overcome. It cometh out by nothing but
   by prayer: Lord, I believe; help Thou mine unbelief.' Then, although
   our faith were only what in popular language was described as the
   smallest' - like a grain of mustard-seed' - and the result to be
   achieved the greatest, most difficult, seemingly transcending human
   ability to compass it - what in popular language was designated as
   removing mountains' [3742] - nothing shall be impossible' unto us. And
   these eighteen centuries of suffering in Christ, and deliverance
   through Christ, and work for Christ, have proved it. For all things are
   ours, if Christ is ours.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [3720] While writing this, we fully remember about the title of St.
   John as he whom Jesus loved' specially, even in that inner and closer
   circle.

   [3721] St. Mark ix. 10.

   [3722] St. Mark ix. 10.

   [3723] St. Matt. xi. 14.

   [3724] The meaning remains substantially the same whether we insert
   him' or it.'

   [3725] The question, whether there is to be a literal reappearance of
   Elijah before the Second Advent of Christ does not seem to be answered
   in the present passage. Perhaps it is purposely left unanswered.

   [3726] In St. Matthew and St. Mark.

   [3727] The reading little faith' instead of unbelief,' though highly
   attested, seems only an early correction. On internal grounds it is
   more likely, that the expression little faith' is a correction by a
   later apologete, than unbelief.' The latter also corresponds to
   faithless generation.'

   [3728] ver. 14.

   [3729] There is no hint in the text, that their amazement was due to
   the shining of His Face.

   [3730] St. Mark.

   [3731] In St. Mark ix. 16 the better reading is, He asked them,' and
   not, as in the T. R., the Scribes.'

   [3732] St. Matthew.

   [3733] The addition of the word fasting' in St. Mark is probably
   spurious. It reads like a later gloss. It is not unlikely that St.
   Matt. xvii. 21 is merely a spurious insertion from St. Mark. However,
   see Meyer on this point.

   [3734] The expression generation' although embracing in its reproof all
   the people, is specially addressed to the disciples.

   [3735] Godet.

   [3736] The weight of the evidence from the MSS. accepted by most modern
   critics (though not by that very judicious commentator, Canon Cook) is
   in favour of the reading and rendering: If Thou canst! all things are
   possible,' &c. But it seems to me, that this mode of reply on the part
   of Christ is not only without any other parallel in the Gospels, but
   too artificial, too Western, if I may use the expression. While the age
   of a MS. or MSS. is, of course, one of the outward grounds on which the
   criticism of the text must proceed, I confess to the feeling that, as
   age and purity are not identical, the interpreter must weigh all such
   evidence in the light of the internal grounds for or against its
   reception. Besides, in this instance, it seems to me that there is some
   difficulty about the t if pistesai is struck out, and which is not so
   easily cleared up as Meyer suggests.

   [3737] Omnipotentiæ Divinæ se fides hominis, quasi organon, accommodat
   and recipiendum, vel etiam ad agendum.' - Bengel.

   [3738] In this sign shalt thou conquer' - the inscription on the
   supposed vision of the Cross by the Emperor Constantine before his
   great victory and conversion to Christianity.

   [3739] The words with tears,' in the T.R. are apparently a spurious
   addition.

   [3740] The interpretation of Meyer: Do not withhold thy help,
   notwithstanding my unbelief' seems as Jejune as that of others: Help me
   in my unbelief.'

   [3741] But it is rather too wide an application, when Euthymius
   Zygabenus (one of the great Byzantine theologians of the twelfth
   century), and others after him, note the kind of all demons.'

   [3742] The Rabbinic use of the expression, grain of mustard seed,' has
   already been noted. The expression tearing up' or removing' mountains'
   was also proverbial among the Rabbis. Thus, a great Rabbi might be
   designated as one who uprooted mountains' (Ber., last page, line 5 from
   top; and Horay, 14 a), or as one who pulverised them (Sanh. 24 a). The
   expression is also used to indicate apparently impossible things, such
   as those which a heathen government may order a man to do (Baba B. 3
   b).
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER III.
THE LAST EVENTS IN GALILEE - THE TRIBUTE-MONEY, THE DISPUTE BY THE WAY, THE
FORBIDDING OF HIM WHO COULD NOT FOLLOW WITH THE DISCIPLES, AND THE CONSEQUENT
TEACHING OF CHRIST.

   (St. Matt. xvii. 22, xviii. 22; St. Mark ix. 30-50; St. Luke ix.
   43-50.)

   Now that the Lord's retreat in the utmost borders of the land, at
   Cæsarea Philippi, was known to the Scribes, and that He was again
   surrounded and followed by the multitude, there could be no further
   object in His retirement. Indeed, the time was coming that He should
   meet that for which He had been, and was still, preparing the minds of
   His disciples - His Decease at Jerusalem. Accordingly, we find Him once
   more with His disciples in Galilee - not to abide there, [3743] nor to
   traverse it as formerly for Missionary purposes, but preparatory to His
   journey to the Feast of Tabernacles. The few events of this brief stay,
   and the teaching connected with it, may be summed up as follows.

   1. Prominently, perhaps, as the summary of all, we have now the clear
   and emphatic repetition of the prediction of His Death and
   Resurrection. While He would keep His present stay in Galilee as
   private as possible, [3744] He would fain so emphasize this teaching to
   His disciples, that it should sink down into their ears and memories.
   For it was, indeed, the most needful for them in view of the immediate
   future. Yet the announcement only filled their loving hearts with
   exceeding sorrow; they comprehend it not; nay, they were - perhaps not
   unnaturally - afraid to ask Him about it. We remember, that even the
   three who had been with Jesus on the Mount, understood not what the
   rising from the dead should mean, and that, by direction of the Master,
   they kept the whole Vision from their fellow-disciples; and, thinking
   of it all, we scarcely wonder that, from their standpoint, it was hid
   from them, so that they might not perceive it.

   2. It is to the depression caused by His insistence on this terrible
   future, to the constant apprehension of near danger, and the consequent
   desire not to offend,' and so provoke those at whose hands, Christ had
   told them, He was to suffer, that we trace the incident about the
   tribute-money. We can scarcely believe, that Peter would have answered
   as he did, without previous permission of his Master, had it not been
   for such thoughts and fears. It was another mode of saying, That be far
   from Thee' - or, rather, trying to keep it as far as he could from
   Christ. Indeed, we can scarcely repress the feeling, that there was a
   certain amount of secretiveness on the part of Peter, as if he had
   apprehended that Jesus would not have wished him to act as he did, and
   would fain have kept the whole transaction from the knowledge of his
   Master.

   It is well known that, on the ground of the injunction in Exod. xxx. 13
   &c., every male in Israel, from twenty years upwards, was expected
   annually to contribute to the Temple-Treasury the sum of one
   half-shekel [3745] of the Sanctuary, [3746] that is, one common shekel,
   or two Attic drachms, [3747] equivalent to about 1s. 2d. or 1s. 3d. of
   our money. Whether or not the original Biblical ordinance had been
   intended to institute a regular annual contribution, the Jews of the
   Dispersion would probably regard it in the light of a patriotic as well
   as religious act.

   To the particulars previously given on this subject a few others may be
   added. The family of the Chief of the Sanhedrin (Gamaliel) seems to
   have enjoyed the curious distinction of bringing their contributions to
   the Temple-Treasury, not like others, but to have thrown them down
   before him who opened the Temple-Chest, [3748] when they were
   immediately placed in the box from which, without delay, sacrifices
   were provided. [3749] Again, the commentators explain a certain passage
   in the Mishnah [3750] and the Talmud [3751] as implying that, although
   the Jews in Palestine had to pay the tribute-money before the Passover,
   those from neighbouring lands might bring it before the Feast of Weeks,
   and those from such remote countries as Babylonia and Media as late as
   the Feast of Tabernacles. [3752] Lastly, although the Mishnah lays it
   down, that the goods of those might be distrained, who had not paid the
   Temple-tribute by the 25th Adar, it is scarcely credible that this
   obtained at the time of Christ, [3753] at any rate in Galilee. Indeed,
   this seems implied in the statement of the Mishnah [3754] and the
   Talmud, [3755] that one of the thirteen trumpets' in the Temple, into
   which contributions were cast, was destined for the shekels of the
   current, and another for those of the preceding, year. Finally, these
   Temple-contributions were in the first place devoted to the purchase of
   all public sacrifices, that is, those which were offered in the name of
   the whole congregation of Israel, such as the morning and evening
   sacrifices. It will be remembered, that this was one of the points in
   fierce dispute between the Pharisees and Sadducees, and that the former
   perpetuated their triumph by marking its anniversary as a festive day
   in their calendar. It seems a terrible irony of judgment [3756] when
   Vespasian ordered, after the destruction of the Temple, that this
   tribute should henceforth be paid for the rebuilding of the Temple of
   Jupiter Capitolinus. [3757]

   It will be remembered that, shortly before the previous Passover, Jesus
   with His disciples had left Capernaum, [3758] That they returned to the
   latter city only for the Sabbath, and that, as we have suggested, they
   passed the first Paschal days on the borders of Tyre. We have, indeed,
   no means of knowing where the Master had tarried during the ten days
   between the 15th and the 25th Adar, supposing the Mishnic arrangements
   to have been in force in Capernaum. He was certainly not at Capernaum,
   and it must also have been known, that He had not gone up to Jerusalem
   for the Passover. Accordingly, when it was told in Capernaum, that the
   Rabbi of Nazareth had once more come to what seems to have been His
   Galilean home, it was only natural, that they who collected the
   Temple-tribute [3759] should have applied for its payment. It is quite
   possible, that their application may have been, if not prompted, yet
   quickened, by the wish to involve Him in a breach of so well-known an
   obligation, or else by a hostile curiosity. Would He, Who took so
   strangely different views of Jewish observances, and Who made such
   extraordinary claims, own the duty of paying the Temple-tribute? Had it
   been owing to His absence, or from principle, that He had not paid it
   last Passover-season? The question which they put to Peter implies, at
   least, their doubt.

   We have already seen what motives prompted the hasty reply of Peter. He
   might, indeed, also otherwise, in his rashness, have given an
   affirmative answer to the inquiry, without first consulting the Master.
   For there seems little doubt, that Jesus had on former occasions
   complied with the Jewish custom. But matters were now wholly changed.
   Since the first Passover, which had marked His first public appearance
   in the Temple at Jerusalem, He had stated - and quite lately in most
   explicit terms - that He was the Christ, the Son of God. To have now
   paid the Temple-tribute, without explanation, might have involved a
   very serious misapprehension. In view of all this, the history before
   us seems alike simple and natural. There is no pretext for the
   artificial construction put upon it by commentators, any more than for
   the suggestion, that such was the poverty of the Master and His
   disciples, that the small sum requisite for the Temple-tribute had to
   be miraculously supplied.

   We picture it to ourselves on this wise. Those who received the
   Tribute-money had come to Peter, and perhaps met him in the court or
   corridor, and asked him: Your Teacher (Rabbi), does He not pay the
   didrachma?' While Peter hastily responded in the affirmative, and then
   entered into the house to procure the coin, or else to report what has
   passed, Jesus, Who had been in another part of the house, but was
   cognisant of all, anticipated him.' [3760] Addressing him in kindly
   language as Simon,' He pointed out the real state of matters by an
   illustration which must, of course, not be too literally pressed, and
   of which the meaning was: Whom does a King intend to tax for the
   maintenance of his palace and officers? Surely not his own family, but
   others. The inference from this, as regarded the Temple-tribute, was
   obvious. As in all similar Jewish parabolic teaching, it was only
   indicated in general principle: Then are the children free.' But even
   so, be it as Peter had wished, although not from the same motive. Let
   no needless offence be given; for, assuredly, they would not have
   understood the principle on which Christ would have refused the Tribute
   money, [3761] and all misunderstanding on the part of Peter was now
   impossible. Yet Christ would still further vindicate His royal title.
   He will pay for Peter also, and pay, as heaven's King, with a Stater,
   or four-drachm piece, miraculously provided.

   Thus viewed, there is, we submit, a moral purpose and spiritual
   instruction in the provision of the Stater out of the fish's mouth. The
   rationalistic explanation of it need not be seriously considered; for
   any mythical interpretation there is not the shadow of support in
   Biblical precedent or Jewish expectancy. But the narrative in its
   literality has a true and high meaning. And if we wished to mark the
   difference between its sober simplicity and the extravagances of
   legend, we would remind ourselves, not only of the well-known story of
   the Ring of Polycrates, but of two somewhat kindred Jewish Haggadahs.
   They are both intended to glorify the Jewish mode of Sabbath
   observance. One of them bears that one Joseph, known as the honourer'
   of the Sabbath, had a wealthy heathen neighbour, to whom the Chaldæans
   had prophesied that all his riches would come to Joseph. To render this
   impossible, the wealthy man converted all his property into one
   magnificent gem, which he carefully concealed within his head-gear.
   Then he took ship, so as for ever to avoid the dangerous vicinity of
   the Jew. But the wind blew his head-gear into the sea, and the gem was
   swallowed by a fish. And lo! it was the holy season, and they brought
   to the market a splendid fish. Who would purchase it but Joseph, for
   none as he would prepare to honour the day by the best which he could
   provide. But when they opened the fish, the gem was found in it - the
   moral being: He that borroweth for the Sabbath, the Sabbath will repay
   him.' [3762]

   The other legend is similar. It was in Rome (in the Christian world)
   that a poor tailor went to market to buy a fish for a festive meal.
   [3763] Only one was on sale, and for it there was keen competition
   between the servant of a Prince and the Jew, the latter at last buying
   it for not less than twelve dinars. At the banquet, the Prince inquired
   of his servants why no fish had been provided. When he ascertained the
   cause, he sent for the Jew with the threatening inquiry, how a poor
   tailor could afford to pay twelve dinars for a fish? My Lord,' replied
   the Jew, there is a day on which all our sins are remitted us, and
   should we not honour it?' The answer satisfied the Prince. But God
   rewarded the Jew, for, when the fish was opened, a precious gem was
   found in it, which he sold, and ever afterwards lived of the proceeds.
   [3764]

   The reader can scarcely fail to mark the absolute difference between
   even the most beautiful Jewish legends and any trait in the Evangelic
   history.

   3. The event next recorded in the Gospels took place partly on the way
   from the Mount of Transfiguration to Capernaum, and partly in Capernaum
   itself, immediately after the scene connected with the Tribute-money.
   It is recorded by the three Evangelists, and it led to explanations and
   admonitions, which are told by St. Mark and St. Luke, but chiefly by
   St. Matthew. This circumstance seems to indicate, that the latter was
   the chief actor in that which occasioned this special teaching and
   warning of Christ, and that it must have sunk very deeply into his
   heart.

   As we look at it, in the light of the then mental and spiritual state
   of the Apostles, not in that in which, perhaps naturally, we regard
   them, what happened seems not difficult to understand. As St. Mark puts
   it, [3765] by the way they had disputed among themselves which of them
   would be the greatest - as St. Matthew explains, [3766] in the
   Messianic Kingdom of Heaven. They might now the more confidently expect
   its near Advent from the mysterious announcement of the Resurrection on
   the third day, [3767] which they would probably connect with the
   commencement of the last Judgment, following upon the violent Death of
   the Messiah. Of a dispute, serious and even violent, among the
   disciples, we have evidence in the exhortation of the Master, as
   reported by St. Mark, [3768] in the direction of the Lord how to deal
   with an offending brother, and in the answering inquiry of Peter.
   [3769] Nor can we be at a loss to perceive its occasion. The
   distinction just bestowed on the three, in being taken up the Mount,
   may have roused feelings of jealousy in the others perhaps of
   self-exaltation in the three. Alike the spirit which John displayed in
   his harsh prohibition of the man that did not follow with the
   disciples, [3770] and the self-righteous bargaining of Peter about
   forgiving the supposed or real offences of a brother, [3771] give
   evidence of anything but the frame of mind which we would have expected
   after the Vision on the Mount.

   In truth, most incongruous as it may appear to us, looking back on it
   in the light of the Resurrection, day, nay, almost incredible -
   evidently, the Apostles were still greatly under the influence of the
   old spirit. It was the common Jewish view, that there would be
   distinctions of rank in the Kingdom of Heaven. It can scarcely be
   necessary to prove this by Rabbinic quotations, since the whole system
   of Rabbinism and Pharisaism, with its separation from the vulgar and
   ignorant, rests upon it. But even within the charmed circle of
   Rabbinism, there would be distinctions, due to learning, merit, and
   even to favouritism. In this world there were His special favourites,
   who could command anything at His hand, to use the Rabbinic
   illustration, like a spoilt child from its father. [3772] [3773] And in
   the Messianic age God would assign booths to each according to his
   rank. [3774] On the other hand, many passages could be quoted bearingon
   the duty of humility and self-abasement. But the stress laid on the
   merit attaching to this shows too clearly, that it was the pride that
   apes humility. One instance, [3775] previously referred to, will
   suffice by way of illustration. When the child of the great Rabbi
   Jochanan ben Zakkai was dangerously ill, he was restored through the
   prayer of one Chanina ben Dosa. On this the father of the child
   remarked to his wife: If the son of Zakkai had all day long put his
   head between his knees, no heed would have been given to him.' How is
   that?' asked his wife; is Chanina greater than thou?' No,' was the
   reply, he is like a servant before the King, while I am like a prince
   before the King' (he is always there, and has thus opportunities which
   I, as a lord, do not enjoy).

   How deep-rooted were such thoughts and feelings, appears not only from
   the dispute of the disciples by the way, but from the request proffered
   by the mother of Zebedee's children and her sons at a later period, in
   terrible contrast to the near Passion of our Lord. [3776] It does,
   indeed come upon us as a most painful surprise, and as sadly
   incongruous, this constant self-obtrusion, self-assertion, and low,
   carnal self-seeking; this Judaistic trifling in face of the utter
   self-abnegation and self-sacrifice of the Son of Man. Surely, the
   contrast between Christ and His disciples seems at times almost as
   great as between Him and the other Jews. If we would measure His
   Stature, or comprehend the infinite distance between His aims and
   teaching and those of His contemporaries, let it be by comparison with
   even the best of His disciples. It must have been part of His
   humiliation and self-examination to bear with them. And is it not, in a
   sense, still so as regards us all?

   We have already seen, that there was quite sufficient occasion and
   material for such a dispute on the way from the Mount of
   Transfiguration to Capernaum. We suppose Peter to have been only at the
   first with the others. To judge by the later question, how often he was
   to forgive the brother who had sinned against him, he may have been so
   deeply hurt, that he left the other disciples, and hastened on with the
   Master, Who would, at any rate, sojourn in his house. For, neither he
   nor Christ seem to have been present when John and the others forbade
   the man, who would not follow with them, to cast out demons in Christ's
   name. Again, the other disciples only came into Capernaum, and entered
   the house, just as Peter had gone for the Stater, with which to pay the
   Temple-tribute for the Master and himself. And, if speculation be
   permissible, we would suggest that the brother, whose offences Peter
   found it so difficult to forgive, may have been none other than Judas.
   In such a dispute by the way, he, with his Judaistic views, would be
   specially interested; perhaps he may have been its chief instigator;
   certainly, he, whose natural character, amidst its sharp contrasts to
   that of Peter, presented so many points of resemblance to it, would, on
   many grounds, be specially jealous of, and antagonistic to him.

   Quite natural in view of this dispute by the way is another incident of
   the journey, which is afterwards related. [3777] As we judge, John
   seems to have been the principal actor in it; perhaps, in the absence
   of Peter, he claimed the leadership. They had met one who was casting
   out demons in the Name of Christ - whether successfully or not, we need
   scarcely inquire. So widely had faith in the power of Jesus extended;
   so real was the belief in the subjection of the demons to Him; so
   reverent was the acknowledgment of Him. A man, who, thus forsaking the
   methods of Jewish exorcists, owned Jesus in the face of the Jewish
   world, could not be far from the Kingdom of Heaven; at any rate, he
   could not quickly speak evil of Him. John had, in name of the
   disciples, forbidden him, because he had not cast in his lot wholly
   with them. It was quite in the spirit of their ideas about the
   Messianic Kingdom, and of their dispute, which of His close followers
   would be greatest there. And yet, they might deceive themselves as to
   the motives of their conduct. If it were not almost impertinence to use
   such terms, we would have said that there was infinite wisdom and
   kindness in the answer which the Saviour gave, when referred to on the
   subject. To forbid a man, in such circumstances, would be either
   prompted by the spirit of the dispute by the way - or else must be
   grounded on evidence that the motive was, or the effect would
   ultimately be (as in the case of the sons of Sceva) to lead men to
   speak evil' of Christ, or to hinder the work of His disciples.
   Assuredly, such could not have been the case with a man, who invoked
   His Name, and perhaps experienced its efficacy. More than this - and
   here is an eternal principle: He that is not against us is for us;' he
   that opposeth not the disciples, really is for them - a saying still
   more clear, when we adopt the better reading in St. Luke, [3778] He
   that is not against you is for you.' [3779]

   There was reproof in this, as well as instruction, deeply consistent
   with that other, though seemingly different, saying: [3780] He that is
   not with Me is against Me.' The distinction between them is twofold. In
   the one case it is not against,' in the other it is not with;' but
   chiefly it lies in this: in the one case it is not against the
   disciples in their work, while in the other it is - not with Christ. A
   man who did what he could with such knowledge of Christ as he
   possessed, even although he did not absolutely follow with them, was
   not against' them. Such an one should be regarded as thus far with
   them; at least be let alone, left to Him Who knew all things. Such a
   man would not lightly speak evil of Christ - and that was all the
   disciples should care for, unless, indeed, they sought their own. Quite
   other was it as regarded the relation of a person to the Christ
   Himself. There neutrality was impossible - and that which was not with
   Christ, by this very fact was against Him. The lesson is of the most
   deep-reaching character, and the distinction, alas! still overlooked -
   perhaps, because ours is too often the spirit of those who journeyed to
   Capernaum. Not, that it is unimportant to follow with the disciples,
   but that it is not ours to forbid any work done, however imperfectly,
   in His Name, and that only one question is really vital - whether or
   not a man is decidedly with Christ.

   Such were the incidents by the way. And now, while withholding from
   Christ their dispute, and, indeed, anything that might seem personal in
   the question, the disciples, on entering the house where He was in
   Capernaum, addressed to Him this inquiry (which should be inserted from
   the opening words of St. Matthew's narrative): Who, then, is greatest
   in the Kingdom of Heaven?' It was a general question - but Jesus
   perceived the thought of their hearts; [3781] He knew about what they
   had disputed by the way, [3782] and now asked them concerning it. The
   account of St. Mark is most graphic. We almost see the scene.
   Conscience-stricken they held their peace.' As we read the further
   words: [3783] And He sat down,' it seems as if the Master had a first
   gone to welcome the disciples on their arrival, and they, full of their
   dispute,' had, without delay, addressed their inquiry to him in the
   court or antechamber, where they met Him, when, reading their thoughts,
   He had first put the searching counter-question, what had been the
   subject of their dispute. Then, leading the way into the house, He sat
   down,' not only to answer their inquiry, which was not a real inquiry,
   but to teach them what so much they needed to learn. He called a little
   child - perhaps Peter's little son - and put him in the midst of them.
   Not to strive who was to be greatest, but to be utterly without
   self-consciousness, like a child - thus, to become turned and entirely
   changed in mind: converted,' was the condition for entering into the
   Kingdom of Heaven. Then, as to the question of greatness there, it was
   really one of greatness of service - and that was greatest service
   which implied most self-denial. Suiting the action to the teaching, the
   Blessed Saviour took the happy child in His Arms. Not, to teach, to
   preach, to work miracles, nor to do great things, but to do the
   humblest service for Christ's sake - lovingly, earnestly, wholly,
   self-forgetfully, simply for Christ, was to receive Christ - nay, to
   receive the Father. And the smallest service, as it might seem - even
   the giving a cup of cold water in such spirit, would not lose its
   reward. Blessed teaching this to the disciples and to us; blessed
   lesson, which, these many centuries of scorching heat, has been of
   unspeakable refreshing, alike to the giver and the receiver of the cup
   of water in the Name of Christ, in the love of Christ, and for the sake
   of Christ. [3784]

   These words about receiving Christ, and receiving in the Name of
   Christ,' had stirred the memory and conscience of John, and made him
   half wonder, half fear, whether what they had done by the way, in
   forbidding the man to do what he could in the name of Christ, had been
   right. And so he told it, and received the further and higher teaching
   on the subject. And, more than this, St. Mark and, more fully, St.
   Matthew, record some further instruction in connection with it, to
   which St. Luke refers, in a slightly different form, at a somewhat
   later period. [3785] But it seems so congruous to the present occasion,
   that we conclude it was then spoken, although, like other sayings,
   [3786] it may have been afterwards repeated under similar
   circumstances. [3787] Certainly, no more effective continuation, and
   application to Jewish minds, of the teaching of our Lord could be
   conceived than that which follows. For, the love of Christ goes deeper
   than the condescension of receiving a child, utterly un-Pharisaic and
   un-Rabbinic as this is. [3788] To have regard to the weaknesses of such
   a child - to its mental and moral ignorance and folly, to adapt
   ourselves to it, to restrain our fuller knowledge and forego our felt
   liberty, so as not to offend' - not to give occasion for stumbling to
   one of these little ones,' that so through our knowledge the weak
   brother for whom Christ died should not perish: this is a lesson which
   reaches even deeper than the question, what is the condition of
   entrance into the Kingdom, or what service constitutes real greatness
   in it. A man may enter into the Kingdom and do service - yet, if in so
   doing he disregard the law of love to the little ones, far better his
   work should be abruptly cut short; better, one of those large
   millstones, turned by an ass, were hung about his neck and he cast into
   the sea! We pause to note, once more, the Judaic, and, therefore,
   evidential, setting of the Evangelic narrative. The Talmud also speaks
   of two kinds of millstones - the one turned by hand ({hebrew}), [3789]
   referred to in St. Luke xvii. 35; the other turned by an ass (mlos
   nils), just as the Talmud also speaks of the ass of the millstone'
   ({hebrew}). [3790] Similarly, the figure about a millstone hung round
   the neck occurs also in the Talmud - although there as figurative of
   almost insuperable difficulties. [3791] Again, the expression, it were
   better for him,' is a well-known Rabbinic expression (Mutabh hayah lo).
   [3792] Lastly, according to St. Jerome, the punishment which seems
   alluded to in the words of Christ, and which we know to have been
   inflicted by Augustus, was actually practised by the Romans in Galilee
   on some of the leaders of the insurrection under Judas of Galilee.

   And yet greater guilt would only too surely be incurred! Woe unto the
   world! [3793] Occasions of stumbling and offence will surely come, but
   woe to the man through whom such havoc was wrought. What then is the
   alternative? If it be a question as between offence and some part of
   ourselves, a limb or member, however useful - the hand, the foot, the
   eye - then let it rather be severed from the body, however painful, or
   however seemingly great the loss. It cannot be so great as that of the
   whole being in the eternal fire of Gehenna, where their worm dieth not,
   and the fire is not quenched. [3794] it hand, foot, or eye - practice,
   pursuit, or research - which consciously leads us to occasions of
   stumbling, it must be resolutely put aside in view of the incomparably
   greater loss of eternal remorse and anguish.

   Here St. Mark abruptly breaks off with a saying in which the Saviour
   makes general application, although the narrative is further continued
   by St. Matthew. The words reported by St. Mark are so remarkable, so
   brief, we had almost said truncated, as to require special
   consideration. [3795] It seems to us that, turning from this thought
   that even members which are intended for useful service may, in certain
   circumstances, have to be cut off to avoid the greatest loss, the Lord
   gave to His disciples this as the final summary and explanation of all:
   For every one shall be salted for the fire' [3796] - or, as a very
   early gloss, which has strangely crept into the text, [3797]
   paraphrased and explained it, Every sacrifice shall be salted with
   salt.' [3798] No one is fit for the sacrificial fire, no one can
   himself be, nor offer anything as a sacrifice, unless it have been
   first, according to the Levitical Law, covered with salt, symbolic of
   the incorruptible. Salt is good; but if the salt,' with which the
   spiritual sacrifice is to be salted for the fire, have lost its savour,
   wherewith will ye season it?' Hence, have salt in yourselves,' but do
   not let that salt be corrupted by making it an occasion of offence to
   others, or among yourselves, as in the dispute by the way, or in the
   disposition of mind that led to it, or in forbidding others to work who
   follow not with you, but be at peace among yourselves.'

   To this explanation of the words of Christ it may, perhaps, be added
   that, from their form, they must have conveyed a special meaning to the
   disciples. It is well-known law, that every sacrifice burned on the
   Altar must be salted with salt. [3799] Indeed, according to the Talmud,
   not only every such offering, but even the wood with which the
   sacrificial fire was kindled, was sprinkled with salt. [3800] Salt
   symbolised to the Jews of that time the incorruptible and the higher.
   Thus, the soul was compared to the salt, and it was said concerning the
   dead: Shake off the salt, and throw the flesh to the dogs.' [3801] The
   Bible was compared to salt; so was acuteness of intellect. [3802]
   Lastly, the question: If the salt have lost its savour, wherewith will
   ye season it?' seems to have been proverbial, and occurs in exactly the
   same words in the Talmud, apparently to denote a thing that is
   impossible. [3803] [3804]

   Most thoroughly anti-Pharisaic and anti-Rabbinic as all this was, what
   St. Matthew further reports leads still farther in the same direction.
   We seem to see Jesus still holding this child, and, with evident
   reference to the Jewish contempt for that which is small, point to him
   and apply, in quite other manner than they had ever heard, the Rabbinic
   teaching about the Angels. In the Jewish view, [3805] only the chiefest
   of the Angels were before the Face of God within the curtained Veil, or
   Pargod, while the others, ranged in different classes, stood outside
   and awaited his behest. [3806] The distinction which the former enjoyed
   was always to behold His Face, and to hear and know directly the Divine
   counsels and commands. This distinction was, therefore, one of
   knowledge; Christ taught that it was one of love. Not the more exalted
   in knowledge, and merit, or worth, but the simpler, the more
   unconscious of self, the more receptive and clinging - the nearer to
   God. Look up from earth to heaven; those representative, it may be,
   guardian, Angels nearest to God, are not those of deepest knowledge of
   God's counsel and commands, but those of simple, humble grace and faith
   - and so learn, not only not to despise one of these little ones, but
   who is truly greatest in the Kingdom of Heaven!

   Viewed in this light, there is nothing incongruous in the transition:
   For the Son of Man is come to save that which was lost.' [3807] This,
   His greatest condescension when He became the Babe of Bethlehem, is
   also His greatest exaltation. He Who is nearest the Father, and, in the
   most special and unique sense, always beholds His Face, is He that
   became a Child, and, as the Son of Man, stoops lowest, to save that
   which was lost. The words are, indeed, regarded as spurious by most
   critics, because certain leading manuscripts omit them, and they are
   supposed to have been imported from St. Luke xix. 10. But such a
   transference from a context wholly unconnected with this section [3808]
   seems unaccountable, while, on the other hand, the verse in question
   forms, not only an apt, but almost necessary, transition to the Parable
   of the Lost Sheep. It seems, therefore, difficult to eliminate it
   without also striking out that Parable; and yet it fits most
   beautifully into the whole context. Suffice it for the present to note
   this. The Parable itself is more fully repeated in another connection,
   [3809] in which it will be more convenient to consider it.

   Yet a further depth of Christian love remained to be shown, which, all
   self-forgetful, sought not its own, but the things of others. This also
   bore on the circumstances of the time, and the dispute between the
   disciples, but went far beyond it, and set forth eternal principles.
   Hitherto it had been a question of not seeking self, nor minding great
   things, but Christ-like and God-like, to condescend to the little ones.
   What if actual wrong had been done, and just offence given by a
   brother'? [3810] In such case, also, the principle of the Kingdom -
   which, negatively, is that of self-forgetfulness, positively, that of
   service of love - would first seek the good of the offending brother.
   We mark, here, the contrast to Rabbinism, which directs that the first
   overtures must be made by the offender, not the offended; [3811] and
   even prescribes this to be done in the presence of numerous witnesses,
   and, if needful, repeated three times. [3812] As regards the duty of
   showing to a brother his fault, and the delicate tenderness of doing
   this in private, so as not to put him to shame, Rabbinism speaks the
   same as the Master of Nazareth. [3813] In fact, according to Jewish
   criminal law, punishment could not be inflicted unless the offender
   (even the woman suspected of adultery) had previously been warned
   before witnesses. Yet, in practice, matters were very different: and
   neither could those be found who would take reproof, nor yet such as
   were worthy to administer it. [3814]

   Quite other was it in the Kingdom of Christ, where the theory was left
   undefined, but the practice clearly marked. Here, by loving dealing, to
   convince of his wrong, him who had done it, was not humiliation nor
   loss of dignity or of right, but real gain: the gain of our brother to
   us, and eventually to Christ Himself. But even if this should fail, the
   offended must not desist from his service of love, but conjoin in it
   others with himself so as to give weight and authority to his
   remonstrances, as not being the outcome of personal feeling or
   prejudice - perhaps, also, to be witnesses before the Divine tribunal.
   If this failed, a final appeal should be made on the part of the Church
   as a whole, which, of course, could only be done through her
   representatives and rulers, to whom Divine authority had been
   committed. And if that were rejected, the offer of love would, as
   always in the Gospel, pass into danger of judgment. Not, indeed, that
   such was to be executed by man, but that such an offender, after the
   first and second admonition, was to be rejected. [3815] He was to be
   treated as was the custom in regard to a heathen or a publican - not
   persecuted, despised, or avoided, but not received in Church-fellowship
   (a heathen), nor admitted to close familiar intercourse (a publican).
   And this, as we understand it, marks out the mode of what is called
   Church discipline in general, and specifically as regards wrongs done
   to a brother. Discipline so exercised (which may God restore to us) has
   the highest Divine sanction, and the most earnest reality attaches to
   it. For, in virtue of the authority which Christ has committed to the
   Church in the persons of her rulers and representatives, [3816] what
   they bound or loosed - declared obligatory or non-obligatory - was
   ratified in heaven. Nor was this to be wondered at. The incarnation of
   Christ was the link which bound earth to heaven: through it whatever
   was agreed upon in the fellowship of Christ, as that which was to be
   asked, would be done for them of his Father Which was in heaven. [3817]
   Thus, the power of the Church reached up to heaven through the power of
   prayer in His Name Who made God our Father. And so, beyond the exercise
   of discipline and authority, there was the omnipotence of prayer - if
   two of you shall agree . . . as touching anything . . . it shall be
   done for them' - and, with it, also the infinite possibility of a
   higher service of love. For, in the smallest gathering in the Name of
   Christ, His Presence would be, [3818] and with it the certainty of
   nearness to, and acceptance with, God. [3819]

   It is bitterly disappointing that, after such teaching, even a Peter
   could - either immediately afterwards, or perhaps after he had had time
   to think it over, and apply it - come to the Master with the question,
   how often he was to forgive an offending brother, imagining that he had
   more than satisfied the new requirements, if he extended it to seven
   times. [3820] Such traits show better than elaborate discussions the
   need of the mission and the renewing of the Holy Ghost. And yet there
   is something touching in the simplicity and honesty with which Peter
   goes to the Master with such a misapprehension of His teaching, as if
   he had fully entered into its spirit. Surely, the new wine was bursting
   the old bottles. It was a principle of Rabbinism that, even if the
   wrongdoer had made full restoration, he would not obtain forgiveness
   till he had asked it of him whom he had wronged, but that it was
   cruelty in such circumstances to refuse pardon. [3821] The Jerusalem
   Talmud [3822] adds the beautiful remark: Let this be a token in thine
   hand - each time that thou showest mercy, God will show mercy on thee;
   and if thou showest not mercy, neither will God show mercy on thee.'
   And yet it was a settled rule, that forgiveness should not be extended
   more than three times. [3823] Even so, the practice was terribly
   different. The Talmud relates, without blame, the conduct of a Rabbi,
   who would not forgive a very small slight of his dignity, though asked
   by the offender for thirteen successive years, and that on the Day of
   Atonement - the reason being, that the offended Rabbi had learned by a
   dream that his offending brother would attain the highest dignity,
   whereupon he feigned himself irreconcilable, to force the other to
   migrate from Palestine to Babylon, where, unenvied by him, he might
   occupy the chief place! [3824]

   And so it must have seemed to Peter, in his ignorance, quite a stretch
   of charity to extend forgiveness to seven, instead of three offences.
   It did not occur to him, that the very act of numbering offences marked
   an externalism which had never entered into, nor comprehended the
   spirit of Christ. Until seven times? Nay, until seventy times seven!
   [3825] The evident purport of these words was to efface all such
   landmarks. Peter had yet to learn, what we, alas! too often forget:
   that as Christ's forgiveness, so that of the Christian, must not be
   computed by numbers. It is qualitative, not quantitative: Christ
   forgives sin, not sins - and he who has experienced it, follows in His
   footsteps. [3826]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [3743] The expression in St. Matthew abode, but a temporary stay - a
   going to (xvii. 22) does not imply permanent abode, but a temporary
   stay - a going to and fro.

   [3744] St. Mark.

   [3745] According to Neh. x. 32, immediately after the return from
   Babylon the contribution was a third of a shekel - probably on account
   of the poverty of the people.

   [3746] Comp. 2 Kings xii. 4; 2 Chron. xxiv. 6; Neh. x. 32.

   [3747] But only one Alexandrian (comp. LXX. Gen. xxiii. 15; Josh. vii.
   21).

   [3748] Could there have been an intended, or - what would be still more
   striking - an unintended, but very real irony in this, when Judas
   afterwards cast down the pieces of silver in the Temple (St. Matt.
   xxvii. 5)?

   [3749] Sheq. iii. 3.

   [3750] Sheq. iii. 4.

   [3751] Yoma 64 a.

   [3752] Dean Plumptre is mistaken in comparing, as regarded the
   Sadducees, the Temple-rate with the Church-rate question. There is no
   analogy between them, nor did the Sadducees ever question its
   propriety. The Dean is also in error in supposing, that the
   Palestinians were wont to bring it at one of the other feasts.

   [3753] The penalty of distraint had only been enacted less than a
   century before (about 78), during the reign of Queen Salome-Alexandra,
   who was entirely in the hands of the Pharisees.

   [3754] Sheqal. vi. 5.

   [3755] Yoma 55 b.

   [3756] Ps. ii. 4.

   [3757] Jos. War vii. 6. 6.

   [3758] See Book III. ch. xxxi.

   [3759] If it were not for the authority of Wieseler, who supports it,
   the suggestion would scarcely deserve serious notice, that the
   reference here is not to the Temple-tribute, but to the Roman polltax o
   census. Irrespective of the question whether a census was then levied
   in Galilee, the latter is designated both in St. Matt. xvii. 25, and in
   xxii. 17, as well as in St. Mark xii. 14, as knsos, while here the
   well-known expression didrachma is used.

   [3760] The Revised Version renders it by: spake first.' But the word
   (prophthno) does not bear this meaning in any of the fifteen passages
   in the LXX., where it corresponds to the Hebrew Qiddem, and means to
   anticipate' or to prevent' in the archaic sense of that word.

   [3761] In Succ. 30 a, we read a parable of a king who paid toll, and
   being asked the reason, replied that travellers were to learn by his
   example not to seek to withdraw themselves from paying all dues.

   [3762] Shabb. 119 a, lines 20 &c. from top.

   [3763] In the Midrash: On the eve of the great fast' (the Day of
   Atonement). But from the connection it is evidently intended to apply
   to the distinction to be put on the Sabbath-meal.

   [3764] Ber. R. 11 on Gen. ii. 3.

   [3765] St. Mark ix. 34.

   [3766] St. Matt. xviii. 1.

   [3767] St. Matt. xvii. 23; St. Mark ix. 31.

   [3768] St. Mark ix. 42-50.

   [3769] St. Matt. xviii. 15, 21.

   [3770] St. Mark ix. 38.

   [3771] St. Matt. xviii. 21.

   [3772] Taan. iii. 8; comp. especially Jer. Taan. 67 a.

   [3773] The almost blasphemous story of how Choni or Onias, the
   circle-drawer,' drew a circle around him, and refused to leave it till
   God had sent rain - and successively objected to too little and too
   much, stands by no means alone. Jer. Taan. 67 a gives some very painful
   details about this power of even altering the decrees of God.

   [3774] Baba B. 75 a.

   [3775] Ber. 34 b.

   [3776] St. Matt. xx. 20.

   [3777] St. Mark ix. 38; St. Luke ix. 49.

   [3778] St. Luke ix. 50.

   [3779] Readers of ordinary sobriety of judgment will form their
   opinions of the value of modern negative criticism, when we tell them
   that it has discovered in this man who did not follow with the
   disciples an allusion to Pauline Christianity,' of which St. Mark took
   a more charitable view than St. Matthew! By such treatment it would not
   be difficult to make anything of the facts of history.

   [3780] St. Matt. xii. 30.

   [3781] St. Luke.

   [3782] St. Mark ix. 33.

   [3783] ver. 35.

   [3784] Verbal parallels could easily be quoted, and naturally so, since
   Jesus spoke as a Jew to Jews - but no real parallel. Indeed, the point
   of the story lies in its being so utterly un-Jewish.

   [3785] St. Luke xvii. 1-7.

   [3786] Comp. for example St. Mark ix. 50 with St. Matt. v. 13.

   [3787] Or else St. Luke may have gathered into connected discourses
   what may have been spoken at different times.

   [3788] St. Matt. xviii. 2-6, and parallels.

   [3789] Kethub. 59 b, line 18 from bottom.

   [3790] Moed K. 10 b, first line.

   [3791] Kidd. 29 b, lines 10 and 9 from bottom.

   [3792] Vayyikra R. 26.

   [3793] St. Matt. xviii. 8-9; St. Mark, ix. 43-48.

   [3794] St. Mark ix. 44 the last clause of ver. 45, and ver. 46, seem to
   be spurious. But ver. 48 (except the words to purs, for which read
   simply: into Gehenna') as well as the expression fire that never shall
   be quenched,' and in St. Matthew, everlasting fire,' are on all hands
   admitted to be genuine. The question of eternal punishment,' from the
   standpoint of Jewish theology, will be treated in a later part.

   [3795] St. Mark ix. 49, 50.

   [3796] The rendering Salted for the fire,' viz., as a sacrifice, has
   been adopted by other critics.

   [3797] We can readily understand how that clause, which was one of the
   most ancient explanations, perhaps a marginal gloss on the text
   Everyone shall be salted for the fire,' crept into the text when its
   meaning was no longer understood.

   [3798] These words are spurious.

   [3799] Lev. ii. 13.

   [3800] Menach. 20 b.

   [3801] Nidd. 31 a.

   [3802] Kidd. 29 b.

   [3803] Bekhor. 8 b, lines 14 and 13 from bottom.

   [3804] {hebrew} -the salt, when it becomes ill-savouring, with what
   shall it be seasoned?' The passage occurs in a very curious Haggadah,
   and the objection that salt would not become ill-savouring, would not
   apply to the proverb in the form given it by Christ.

   [3805] See the Appendix on Angelology and Demonology.'

   [3806] Chag. 12 b; Pirké de R. Eliez. 4.

   [3807] St. Matt. xviii. 11.

   [3808] Except that the history of Zacchæus, in which the words occur,
   is really an application real life of the Parable of the Lost Sheep.

   [3809] St. Luke xv. 3-7.

   [3810] St. Matt. xviii. 15.

   [3811] Yoma viii. 9.

   [3812] Yoma 87 a.

   [3813] Shabb. 119 b; Tamid 28 a; Arakh. 16 b.

   [3814] Arakh. u.s.

   [3815] Titus iii. 10.

   [3816] It is both curious and interesting to find that the question,
   whether the Priests exercised their functions as the sent of God' or
   the sent of the congregation' - that is, held their commission directly
   from God, or only as being the representatives of the people, is
   discussed already in the Talmud (Yoma 18 b & c.; Nedar. 35 b). The
   Talmud replies that, as it is impossible to delegate what one does not
   possess, and since the laity might neither offer sacrifices nor do any
   like service, the Priests could not possibly have been the delegates of
   the Church, but must be those of God. (See the essay by Delitzsch in
   the Zeitschr. fur Luther. Theol. for 1854, pp. 446-449.)

   [3817] St. Matt. xviii. 19.

   [3818] The Mishnah (Ab. iii. 2), and the Talmud (Ber. 6 a), infer from
   Mal. iii. 16, that, when two are together and occupy themselves with
   the Law, the Shekhinah is between them. Similarly, it is argued from
   Lament. iii. 28, and Exod. xx. 21, that if even one alone is engaged in
   such pursuits, God is with him and will bless him.

   [3819] St. Matt. xviii. 19, 20.

   [3820] St. Matt. xviii. 21.

   [3821] Babha K. viii. 7.

   [3822] Jer. Babha K. 6 c.

   [3823] Yoma 86 b.

   [3824] Yoma 87.

   [3825] It makes no difference in the argument, whether we translate
   seventy times seven, or else seventy times and seven.

   [3826] The Parable, with which the account in St. Matthew closes, will
   be explained by and by in the Second Series of Parables.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER IV.
THE JOURNEY TO JERUSALEM - CHRONOLOGICAL ARRANGEMENT OF THE LAST PART OF THE
GOSPEL-NARRATIVES - FIRST INCIDENTS BY THE WAY.

   (St. John vii. 1-16; St. Luke ix. 1-56; 57-62; St. Matthew viii.
   19-22.)

   THE part in the Evangelic History which we have now reached has this
   peculiarity and difficulty, that the events are now recorded by only
   one of the Evangelists. The section in St. Luke's Gospel from chapter
   ix. 51 to chapter xviii. 14 stands absolutely alone. From the
   circumstance that St. Luke omits throughout his narrative all notation
   of time or place, the difficulty of arranging here the chronological
   succession of events is so great, that we can only suggest what seems
   most probable, without feeling certain of the details. Happily, the
   period embraced is a short one, while at the same time the narrative of
   St. Luke remarkably fits into that of St. John. St. John mentions three
   appearances of Christ in Jerusalem at that period: at the Feast of
   Tabernacles, [3827] at that of the Dedication, [3828] and His final
   entry, which is referred to by all the other Evangelists. [3829] But,
   while the narrative of St. John confines itself exclusively to what
   happened in Jerusalem or its immediate neighborhood. it also either
   mentions or gives sufficient indication that on two out of these three
   occasions Jesus left Jerusalem for the country east of the Jordan (St.
   John x. 19-21; St. John x. 39-43, where the words in ver. 39, they
   sought again to take Him,' point to a previous similar attempt and
   flight). Besides these, St. John also records a journey to Bethany -
   though not to Jerusalem - for the raising of Lazarus, [3830] and after
   that a council against Christ in Jerusalem, in consequence of which He
   withdrew out of Judæan territory into a district near the wilderness'
   [3831] - as we infer, that in the north, where John had been baptizing
   and Christ been tempted, and whither He had afterwards withdrawn.
   [3832] We regard this wilderness' as on the western bank of the Jordan,
   and extending northward towards the eastern shore of the Lake of
   Galilee. [3833]

   If St. John relates three appearances of Jesus at this time in
   Jerusalem, St. Luke records three journeys to Jerusalem, [3834] the
   last of which agrees, in regard to its starting point, with the notices
   of the other Evangelists, [3835] always supposing that we have
   correctly indicated the locality of the wilderness' whither, according
   to St. John xi. 54, Christ retired previous to His last journey to
   Jerusalem. In this respect, although it is impossible with our present
   information to localise the City of Ephraim,' [3836] the statement that
   it was near the wilderness,' affords us sufficient general notice of
   its situation. For, the New Testament speaks of only two wilderness,'
   that of Judæa in the far South, and that in the far North of Peræa, or
   perhaps in the Decapolis, to which St. Luke refers as the scene of the
   Baptist's labours, where Jesus was tempted, and whither He afterwards
   withdrew. We can, therefore, have little doubt that St. John refers
   [3837] to this district. And this entirely accords with the notices by
   the other Evangelists of Christ's last journey to Jerusalem, as through
   the borders of Galilee and Samaria, and then across the Jordan, and by
   Bethany to Jerusalem.

   It follows (as previously stated) that St. Luke's account of the three
   journeys to Jerusalem fits into the narrative of Christ's three
   appearances in Jerusalem as described by St. John. And the unique
   section in St. Luke [3838] supplies the record of what took place
   before, during, and after those journeys, of which the upshot is told
   by St. John. This much seems certain; the exact chronological
   succession must be, in part, matter of suggestion. But we have now some
   insight into the plan of St. Luke's Gospel, as compared with that of
   the others. We see that St. Luke forms a kind of transition, is a sort
   of connecting link between the other two Synoptists [3839] and St.
   John. This is admitted even by negative critics. [3840] The Gospel by
   St. Matthew has for its main object the Discourses or teaching of the
   Lord, around which the History groups itself. It is intended as a
   demonstration, primarily addressed to the Jews, and in a form
   peculiarly suited to them, that Jesus was the Messiah, the Son of the
   Living God. The Gospel by St. Mark is a rapid survey of the History of
   the Christ as such. It deals mainly with the Galilean Ministry. The
   Gospel by St. John, which gives the highest, the reflective, view of
   the Eternal Son as the Word, deals almost exclusively with the
   Jerusalem Ministry. [3841] And the Gospel by St. Luke complements the
   narratives in the other two Gospels (St. Matthew and St. Mark), and it
   supplements them by tracing, what is not done otherwise: the Ministry
   in Peroea. Thus, it also forms a transition to the Fourth Gospel of the
   Judæan Ministry. If we may venture a step further: The Gospel by St.
   Mark gives the general view of the Christ; that by St. Matthew the
   Jewish, that by St. Luke the Gentile, and that by St. John the Church's
   view. Imagination might, indeed, go still further, and see the impress
   of the number five - that of the Pentateuch and the Book of Psalms - in
   the First Gospel; the numeral four (that of the world) in the Second
   Gospel (4x4=16 chapters); that of three in the Third (8x3=24 chapters);
   and that of seven, the sacred Church number, in the Fourth Gospel
   (7x3=21 chapters). And perhaps we might even succeed in arranging the
   Gospels into corresponding sections. But this would lead, not only
   beyond our present task, but from solid history and exegesis into the
   regions of speculation. [3842]

   The subject, then, primarily before us, is the journeying of Jesus to
   Jerusalem. In that wider view which St. Luke takes of this whole
   history, he presents what really were three separate journeys as one -
   that towards the great end. In its conscious aim and object, all - from
   the moment of His finally quitting Galilee to His final Entry into
   Jerusalem - formed, in the highest sense, only one journey And this St.
   Luke designates in a peculiar manner. Just as [3843] he had spoken, not
   of Christ's Death but of His Exodus,' or outgoing, which included His
   Resurrection and Ascension, so he now tells us that, when the days of
   His uptaking' - including and pointing to His Ascension [3844] - were
   being fulfilled, He also [3845] steadfastly set [3846] His Face to go
   to Jerusalem.'

   St. John, indeed, goes farther back, and speaks of the circumstances
   which preceded His journey to Jerusalem. There is an interval, or, as
   we might term it, a blank, of more than half a year between the last
   narrative in the Fourth Gospel and this. For, the events chronicled in
   the sixth chapter of St. John's Gospel took place immediately before
   the Passover, [3847] which was on the fifteenth day of the first
   ecclesiastical month (Nisan), while the Feast of Tabernacle [3848]
   began on the same day of the seventh ecclesiastical month (Tishri).
   But, except in regard to the commencement of Christ's Ministry, that
   sixth chapter is the only one in the Gospel of St. John which refers to
   the Galilean Ministry of Christ. We would suggest, that what it records
   is partly intended [3849] to exhibit, by the side of Christ's fully
   developed teaching, the fully developed enmity of the Jerusalem
   Scribes, which led even to the defection of many former disciples.
   Thus, chapter vi. would be a connecting-link (both as regards the
   teaching of Christ and the opposition to Him) between chapter v., which
   tells of His visit at the Unknown Feast,' and chapter vii., which
   records that at the Feast of Tabernacles. The six or seven months
   between the Feast of Passover [3850] and that of Tabernacles, [3851]
   and all that passed within them, are covered by this brief remark:
   After these things Jesus walked in Galilee: for He would not walk in
   Judæa, because the Jews [the leaders of the people [3852] ] sought to
   kill Him.'

   But now the Feast of Tabernacles was at hand. The pilgrims would
   probably arrive in Jerusalem before the opening day of the Festival.
   For, besides the needful preparations - which would require time,
   especially on this Feast, when booths had to be constructed in which to
   live during the festive week - it was (as we remember) the common
   practice to offer such sacrifices as might have previously become due
   at any of the great Feasts to which the people might go up. [3853]
   Remembering that five months had elapsed since the last great Feast
   (that of Weeks), many such sacrifices must have been due. Accordingly,
   the ordinary festive companies of pilgrims, which would travel slowly,
   must have started from Galilee some time before the beginning of the
   Feast. These circumstances fully explain the details of the narrative.
   They also afford another most painful illustration of the loneliness of
   Christ in His Work. His disciples had failed to understand, they
   misapprehended His teaching. In the near prospect of His Death they
   either displayed gross ignorance, or else disputed about their future
   rank. And His own brethren' did not believe in Him. The whole course of
   late events, especially the unmet challenge of the Scribes for a sign
   from heaven,' had deeply shaken them. What was the purpose of works,'
   if done in the privacy of the circle of Christ's Apostles, in a house,
   a remote district, or even before an ignorant multitude? If, claiming
   to be the Messiah, He wished to be openly [3854] known as such, He must
   use other means. If He really did these things, let Him manifest
   Himself before the world - in Jerusalem, the capital of their world,
   and before those who could test the reality of His Works. Let Him come
   forward, at one of Israel's great Feasts, in the Temple, and especially
   at this Feast which pointed to the Messianic ingathering of all
   nations. Let Him now go up with them in the festive company into Judæa,
   that so His disciples - not the Galileans only - but all, might have
   the opportunity of gazing' [3855] on His Works. [3856]

   As the challenge was not new, [3857] so, from the worldly point of
   view, it can scarcely be called unreasonable. It is, in fact, the same
   in principle as that to which the world would now submit the claims of
   Christianity to men's acceptance. It has only this one fault, that it
   ignores the world's enmity to the Christ. Discipleship is not the
   result of any outward manifestation by evidences' or demonstration. It
   requires the conversion of a child-like spirit. To manifest Himself!
   This truly would He do, though not in their way. For this the season'
   [3858] had not yet come, though it would soon arrive. Their season' -
   that for such Messianic manifestations as they contemplated - was
   always ready.' And this naturally, for the world' could not hate' them;
   they and their demonstrations were quite in accordance with the world
   and its views. But towards Him the world cherished personal hatred,
   because of their contrariety of principle, because Christ was
   manifested, not to restore an earthly kingdom to Israel, but to bring
   the Heavenly Kingdom upon earth - to destroy the works of the Devil.'
   Hence, He must provoke the enmity of that world which lay in the Wicked
   One. Another manifestation than that which they sought would He make,
   when His season was fulfilled;' soon, beginning at this very Feast,
   continued at the next, and completed at the last Passover; such
   manifestation of Himself as the Christ, as could alone be made in view
   of the essential enmity of the world.

   And so He let them go up in the festive company, while Himself tarried.
   When the noise and publicity (which He wished to avoid) were no longer
   to be apprehended, He also went up, but privately, [3859] not publicly,
   as they had suggested. Here St. Luke's account begins. It almost reads
   like a commentary on what the Lord had just said to His brethren, about
   the enmity of the world, and His mode of manifestation - who would not,
   and who would receive Him, and why. He came unto His own, and His own
   received Him not. But as many as received Him, to them gave He power to
   become children of God . . . which were born . . . of God.'

   The first purpose of Christ seems to have been to take the more direct
   road to Jerusalem, through Samaria, and not to follow that of the
   festive pilgrim-bands, which travelled to Jerusalem through Peræa, in
   order to avoid the band of their hated rivals. But His intention was
   soon frustrated. In the very first Samaritan village to which the
   Christ had sent beforehand to prepare for Himself and His company,
   [3860] His messengers were told that the Rabbi could not be received;
   that neither hospitality nor friendly treatment could be extended to
   One Who was going up to the Feast at Jerusalem. The messengers who
   brought back this strangely un-Oriental answer met the Master and His
   followers on the road. It was not only an outrage on common manners,
   but an act of open hostility to Israel, as well as to Christ, and the
   Sons of Thunder,' whose feelings for their Master were, perhaps, the
   more deeply stirred as opposition to Him grew more fierce, proposed to
   vindicate the cause, alike of Israel and its Messiah-King, by the open
   and Divine judgment of fire called down from heaven to destroy that
   village. Did they in this connection think of the vision of Elijah,
   ministering to Christ on the Mount of Transfiguration - and was this
   their application of it? Truly, they knew not of what Spirit they were
   to be the children and messengers. He Who had come, not to destroy, but
   to save, turned and rebuked them, and passed from Samaritan into Jewish
   territory to pursue His journey. [3861] Perhaps, indeed, He had only
   passed into Samaria to teach His disciples this needful lesson. The
   view of this event just presented seems confirmed by the circumstance,
   that St. Matthew lays the scene immediately following on the other
   side' - that is, in the Decapolis. [3862]

   It was a journey of deepest interest and importance. For, it was
   decisive not only as regarded the Master, but those who followed Him.
   Henceforth it must not be, as in former times, but wholly and
   exclusively, as into suffering and death. It is thus that we view the
   next three incidents of the way. Two of them find, also, a place in the
   Gospel by St. Matthew, [3863] although in a different connection, in
   accordance with the plan of that Gospel, which groups together the
   Teaching of Christ, with but secondary attention to chronological
   succession.

   It seems that, as, after the rebuff of these Samaritans, they were
   going' towards another, and a Jewish village, one' [3864] of the
   company, and, as we learn from St. Matthew, a Scribe,' in the generous
   enthusiasm of the moment - perhaps, stimulated by the wrong of the
   Samaritans, perhaps, touched by the love which would rebuke the zeal of
   the disciples, but had no word of blame for the unkindness of others -
   broke into a spontaneous declaration of readiness to follow Him
   absolutely and everywhere. Like the benediction of the woman who heard
   Him, [3865] it was one of these outbursts of an enthusiasm which His
   Presence awakened in every susceptible heart. But there was one
   eventuality which that Scribe, and all of like enthusiasm, reckoned not
   with - the utter homelessness of the Christ in this world - and this,
   not from accidental circumstances, but because He was the Son of Man.'
   [3866] And there is here also material for still deeper thought in the
   fact that this man was a Scribe,' and yet had not gone up to the Feast,
   but tarried near Christ - was one' of those that followed Him now, and
   was capable of such feelings! [3867] How many whom we regard as
   Scribes, may be in analogous relation to the Christ, and yet how much
   of fair promise has failed to ripen into reality in view of the
   homelessness of Christ and Christianity in this world - the stranger
   ship of suffering which it involves to those who would follow, not
   somewhere, but absolutely, and everywhere?

   The intenseness of the self-denial involved in following Christ, and
   its contrariety to all that was commonly received among men, was,
   purposely, immediately further brought out. This Scribe had proffered
   to follow Jesus. Another of his disciples He asked to follow Him, and
   that in circumstances of peculiar trail and difficulty. [3868] The
   expression to follow' a Teacher would, in those days be universally
   understood as implying discipleship. Again, no other duty would be
   regarded as more sacred than that they, on whom the obligation
   naturally devolved, should bury the dead. To this everything must give
   way - even prayer, and the study of the Law. [3869] Lastly, we feel
   morally certain, that, when Christ called this disciple to follow Him,
   He was fully aware that at that very moment his father lay dead. Thus,
   He called him not only to homelessness - for this he might have been
   prepared - but to set aside what alike natural feeling and the Jewish
   Law seemed to impose on him as the most sacred duty. In the seemingly
   strange reply, which Christ made to the request to be allowed first to
   bury his father, we pass over the consideration that, according to
   Jewish law, the burial and mourning for a dead father, and the
   subsequent purifications, would have occupied many days, so that it
   might have been difficult, perhaps impossible, to overtake Christ. We
   would rather abide by the simple words of Christ. They teach us this
   very solemn and searching lesson, that there are higher duties than
   either those of the Jewish Law, or even of natural reverence, and a
   higher call than that of man. No doubt Christ had here in view the near
   call to the Seventy - of whom this disciple was to be one - to go and
   preach the Kingdom of God.' When the direct call of Christ to any work
   comes - that is, if we are sure of it from His own words, and not (as,
   alas! too often we do) only infer it by our own reasoning on His words
   - then every other call must give way. For, duties can never be in
   conflict - and this duty about the living and life must take precedence
   of that about death and the dead. Nor must we hesitate, because we know
   not in what form this work for Christ may come. There are critical
   moments in our inner history, when to postpone the immediate call, is
   really to reject it; when to go and bury the dead - even though it were
   a dead father - were to die ourselves!

   Yet another hindrance to following Christ was to be faced. Another in
   the company that followed Christ would go with Him, but he asked
   permission first to go and bid farewell to those whom he had left in
   his home. It almost seems as if this request had been one of those
   tempting' questions, addressed to Christ. But, even if otherwise, the
   farewell proposed was not like that of Elisha, nor like the supper of
   Levi-Matthew. It was rather like the year which Jephtha's daughter
   would have with her companions, ere fulfilling the vow. It shows, that
   to follow Christ was regarded as a duty, and to leave those in the
   earthly home as a trial; and it betokens, not merely a divided heart,
   but one not fit for the Kingdom of God. For, how can he draw a straight
   furrow in which to cast the seed, who, as he puts his hand to the
   plough, looks around or behind him?

   Thus, these are the three vital conditions of following Christ:
   absolute self-denial and homelessness in the world; immediate and
   entire self-surrender to Christ and His Work, and a heart and
   affections simple, undivided, and set on Christ and His Work, to which
   there is no other trial of parting like that which would involve
   parting from Him, no other or higher joy than that of following Him. In
   such spirit let them now go after Christ in His last journey - and to
   such work as He will appoint them!
     __________________________________________________________________

   [3827] St. John vii. to x.

   [3828] x. 22-42.

   [3829] St. Matt. xx. 17 &c.; St. Mark x. 32 &c.; St. Luke xvii. 11 &c.

   [3830] St. John xi.

   [3831] xi. 54.

   [3832] St. Luke iv. 1; v. 16; vii. 24.

   [3833] St. Luke viii. 29.

   [3834] St. Luke ix. 51; xiii. 22; xviii. 31.

   [3835] St. Matt. xix. 1; St. Mark x. 1.

   [3836] Comp. the suggestions in Neubauer, Geog. de Talm. p. 155.

   [3837] in St. John xi. 54.

   [3838] St. Luke ix. 51-xviii. 14.

   [3839] St. Matthew and St. Mark.

   [3840] See Renan, Les Evangiles, p.266.

   [3841] This seems unaccountable on the modern negative theory of its
   being an Ephesian Gospel.

   [3842] Of course, putting aside the question of the arrangement into
   chapters, the reader might profitably make the experiment of arranging
   the Gospels into parts and sections, nor could he have a better guide
   to help his own investigations than Canon Westcott's Introduction to
   the Study of the Gospels.

   [3843] St. Luke ix. 31.

   [3844] The substantive nlepsis occurs only in this place, but the
   cognate verb repeatedly, as referring to the Ascension. The curious
   interpretation of Wieseler would not even call for notice, it had not
   the authority of his name.

   [3845] The word ka, omitted in translations, seems to denote Christ's
   full determination by the side of the fulfilment of the time. It could
   scarcely be argued that it stands merely for the Hebrew copulative
   {hebrew}.

   [3846] The term is used in the LXX as denoting firmly setting. In
   connection with prsopon it occurs twelve times.

   [3847] St. John vi. 4.

   [3848] St. John vii. 2.

   [3849] Other and deeper reasons will also suggest themselves, and have
   been hinted at when treating of this event.

   [3850] St. John vi.

   [3851] St. John vii.

   [3852] The term Jews' is generally used by St. John in that sense.

   [3853] According to Babha K. 113 a, regular festive lectures commenced
   in the Academies thirty days before each of the great Feasts. Those who
   attended them were called Beney Rigla, in distinction to the Beney
   Khallah, who attended the regular Sabbath lectures.

   [3854] The same term {hebrew} (Parhesya) occurs in Rabbinic language.

   [3855] The verb is the significant one, theoro.

   [3856] Godet remarks, that the style of ver. 4 is peculiarly
   Hebraistic.

   [3857] See especially the cognate occurrence and expressions at the
   marriage feast in Cana.

   [3858] kairs.

   [3859] Godet infers from the word secretly,' that the journey of St.
   Luke ix. 51 could not have been that referred to by St. John. But the
   qualified expression, as it were in secret,' conveys to my mind only a
   contrast to the public pilgrim-bands, in which it was the custom to
   travel to the Feasts - a publicity, which His brethren' specially
   desired at this time. Besides, the in secret' of St. John might refer
   not so much to the journey as to the appearance of Christ at the Feast:
   comp. St. John vii. 11, 14.

   [3860] It does not necessarily follow, that the company at starting was
   a large one. But they would have no host nor quarters ready to receive
   them in Samaria. Hence the despatch of messengers.

   [3861] At the same time, according to the best MSS. the words (in St.
   Luke ix. 54): Even as Elias did,' and those (in verses 55 and 56) from
   and said. . .' to save them,' are interpolated. They are a gloss,'
   though a correct one.

   [3862] St. Matt. viii. 18.

   [3863] St. Matt. viii. 19-22.

   [3864] The word tis, here designates a certain one - one, viz., of the
   company. The arrangement of the words undoubtedly is, one of the
   company said unto Him by the way,' and not as either in the A.V. or
   R.V. Comp. Canon Cook, ad loc. in the Speaker's Commentary.'

   [3865] St. Luke xi. 27.

   [3866] We mark, that the designation Son of Man' is here for the first
   time applied to Christ by St. Matthew. May this history have been
   inserted in the First Gospel in that particular connection for the
   purpose of pointing out this contrast in the treatment of the Son of
   Man by the sons of men - as if to say: Learn the meaning of the
   representative title: Son of Man, in a world of men who would not
   receive Him? It is the more marked, that it immediately precedes the
   first application on the part of men of the title Son of God' to Christ
   in this Gospel (St. Matt. vii. 29).

   [3867] It is scarcely necessary to discuss the suggestion, that the
   first two referred to in the narrative were either Bartholomew and
   Philip, or else Judas Iscariot and Thomas.

   [3868] St. Luke ix. 59.

   [3869] Ber. iii. 1; 17 b, and other passages, but especially Megill. 3.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER V.
FURTHER INCIDENTS OF THE JOURNEY TO JERUSALEM - THE MISSION AND RETURN OF THE
SEVENTY - THE HOME AT BETHANY - MARTHA AND MARY

   (St. Luke x. 1-16; Matt. ix. 36-38; xi. 20-24; St. Luke x. 17-24; St.
   Matt. xi. 25-30 ; xiii. 16 ; St. Luke x. 25 ; 38-42.)

   ALTHOUGH, for the reasons explained in the previous chapter, the exact
   succession of events cannot be absolutely determined, it seems most
   likely, that it was on His progress southwards at this time that Jesus
   designated' [3870] those seventy' [3871] others,' who were to herald
   His arrival in every town and village. Even the circumstance, that the
   instructions to them are so similar to, and yet distinct from, those
   formerly given to the Twelve, seems to point to them as those from whom
   the Seventy are to be distinguished as other.' We judge, that they were
   sent forth at this time, first, from the Gospel of St. Luke, where this
   whole section appears as a distinct and separate record, presumably,
   chronologically arranged; secondly, from the fitness of such a mission
   at that particular period, when Jesus made His last Missionary progress
   towards Jerusalem; and, thirdly, from the unlikelihood, if not
   impossibility, of taking such a public step after the persecution which
   broke out after His appearance at Jerusalem on the Feast of
   Tabernacles. At any rate, it could not have taken place later than in
   the period between the Feast of Tabernacles and that of the Dedication
   of the Temple, since, after that, Jesus walked no more openly among the
   Jews.' [3872]

   With all their similarity, there are notable differences between the
   Mission of the Twelve and this of the other Seventy.' Let it be noted,
   that the former is recorded by the three Evangelists, so that there
   could have been no confusion on the part of St. Luke. [3873] But the
   mission of the Twelve was on their appointment to the Apostolate; it
   was evangelistic and missionary; and it was in confirmation and
   manifestation of the power and authority' given to them. We regard it,
   therefore, as symbolical of the Apostolate just instituted, with its
   work and authority. On the other hand, no power or authority was
   formally conferred on the Seventy, their mission being only temporary,
   and, indeed, for one definite purpose; its primary object was to
   prepare for the coming of the Master in the places to which they were
   sent; and their selection was from the wider circle of disciples, the
   number being now Seventy instead of Twelve. Even these two numbers, as
   well as the difference in the functions of the two classes of
   messengers, seem to indicate that the Twelve symbolised the princes of
   the tribes of Israel, while the Seventy were the symbolical
   representatives of these tribes, like the seventy elders appointed to
   assist Moses. [3874] [3875] This symbolical meaning of the number
   Seventy continued among the Jews. We can trace it in the LXX.
   (supposed) translators of the Bible into Greek, and in the seventy
   members of the Sanhedrin, or supreme court. [3876]

   There was something very significant in this appearance of Christ's
   messengers, by two and two, in every place He was about to visit. As
   John the Baptist had, at the first, heralded the Coming of Christ, so
   now two heralds appeared to solemnly announce His Advent at the close
   of His Ministry; as John had sought, as the representative of the Old
   Testament Church, to prepare His Way, so they, as the representatives
   of the New Testament Church. In both cases the preparation sought was a
   moral one. It was the national summons to open the gates to the
   rightful King, and accept His rule. Only, the need was now the greater
   for the failure of John's mission, through the misunderstanding and
   disbelief of the nation. [3877] This conjunction with John the Baptist
   and the failure of his mission, as regarded national results, accounts
   for the insertion in St. Matthew's Gospel of part of the address
   delivered on the Mission of the Seventy, immediately after the record
   of Christ's rebuke of the national rejection of the Baptist. [3878] For
   St. Matthew, who (as well as St. Mark) records not the Mission of the
   Seventy - simply because (as before explained) the whole section, of
   which it forms part, is peculiar to St. Luke's Gospel - reports the
   Discourses' connected with it in other, and to them congruous,
   connections.

   We mark, that, what may be termed the Preface' to the Mission of the
   Seventy, is given by St. Matthew (in a somewhat fuller form) as that to
   the appointment and mission of the Twelve Apostles; [3879] and it may
   have been, that kindred words had preceded both. Partially, indeed, the
   expressions reported in St. Luke x. 2 had been employed long before.
   [3880] Those multitudes' throughout Israel - nay, those also which are
   not of that flock' - appeared to His view like sheep without a true
   shepherd's care, distressed and prostrate,' [3881] and their mute
   misery and only partly conscious longing appealed, and not in vain, to
   His Divine compassion. This constituted the ultimate ground of the
   Mission of the Apostles, and now of the Seventy, into a harvest that
   was truly great. Compared with the extent of the field, and the urgency
   of the work, how few were the labourers! Yet, as the field was God's,
   so also could He alone thrust forth labourers' willing and able to do
   His work, while it must be ours to pray that He would be pleased to do
   so.

   On these introductory words, [3882] which ever since have formed the
   bidding prayer' of the Church in her work for Christ, followed the
   commission and special directions to the thirty-five pairs of disciples
   who went on this embassy. In almost every particular they are the same
   as those formerly given to the Twelve. [3883] We mark, however, that
   both the introductory and the concluding words addressed to the
   Apostles are wanting in what was said to the Seventy. It was not
   necessary to warn them against going to the Samaritans, since the
   direction of the Seventy was to those cities of Peræa and Judæa, on the
   road to Jerusalem, through which Christ was about to pass. Nor were
   they armed with precisely the same supernatural powers as the Twelve.
   [3884] Naturally, the personal directions as to their conduct were in
   both cases substantially the same. We mark only three peculiarities in
   those addressed to the Seventy. The direction to salute no man by the
   way' was suitable to a temporary and rapid mission, which might have
   been sadly interrupted by making or renewing acquaintances. Both the
   Mishnah [3885] and the Talmud [3886] lay it down, that prayer was not
   to be interrupted to salute even a king, nay, to uncoil a serpent that
   had wound round the foot. [3887] On the other hand, the Rabbis
   discussed the question, whether the reading of the Shema and of the
   portion of the Psalms called the Hallel might be interrupted at the
   close of a paragraph, from respect for a person, or interrupted in the
   middle, from motives of fear. [3888] All agreed, that immediately
   before prayer no one should be saluted, to prevent distraction, and it
   was advised rather to summarise or to cut short than to break into
   prayer, though the latter might be admissible in case of absolute
   necessity. [3889] None of these provisions, however, seems to have been
   in the mind of Christ. If any parallel is to be sought, it would be
   found in the similar direction of Elisha to Gehazi, when sent to lay
   the prophet's staff on the dead child of the Shunammite.

   The other two peculiarities in the address to the Seventy seem verbal
   rather than real. The expression, [3890] if the Son of Peace be there,'
   is a Hebraism, equivalent to if the house be worthy,' [3891] and refers
   to the character of the head of the house and the tone of the
   household. [3892] Lastly, the direction to eat and drink such things as
   were set before them [3893] is only a further explanation of the
   command to abide in the house which had received them, without seeking
   for better entertainment. [3894] On the other hand, the whole most
   important close of the address to the Twelve - which, indeed, forms by
   far the largest part of it [3895] - is wanting in the commission to the
   Seventy, thus clearly marking its merely temporary character.

   In St. Luke's Gospel, the address to the Seventy is followed by a
   denunciation of Chorazin and Bethsaida. [3896] This is evidently in its
   right place there, after the Ministry of Christ in Galilee had been
   completed and finally rejected. In St. Matthew's Gospel, it stands (for
   a reason already indicated) immediately after the Lord's rebuke of the
   popular rejection of the Baptist's message. [3897] The woe' pronounced
   on those cities, in which most of His mighty works were done,' is in
   proportion to the greatness of their privileges. The denunciation of
   Chorazin and Bethsaida is the more remarkable, that Chorazin is not
   otherwise mentioned in the Gospels, nor yet any miracles recorded as
   having taken place in (the western) Bethsaida. From this two inferences
   seem inevitable. First, this history must be real. If the whole were
   legendary, Jesus would not be represented as selecting the names of
   places, which the writer had not connected with the legend. Again,
   apparently no record has been preserved in the Gospels of most of
   Christ's miracles - only those being narrated which were necessary in
   order to present Jesus as the Christ, in accordance with the respective
   plans on which each of the Gospels was constructed. [3898]

   As already stated, the denunciations were in proportion to the
   privileges, and hence to the guilt, of the unbelieving cities. Chorazin
   and Bethsaida are compared with Tyre and Sidon, which under similar
   admonitions would have repented, [3899] while Capernaum, which, as for
   so long the home of Jesus, had truly been exalted to heaven,' [3900] is
   compared with Sodom. And such guilt involved greater punishment. The
   very site of Bethsaida and Chorazin cannot be fixed with certainty. The
   former probably represents the Fisherton' of Capernaum, [3901] the
   latter seems to have almost disappeared from the shore of the Lake. St.
   Jerome places it two miles from Capernaum. If so, it may be represented
   by the modern Kerâzeh, somewhat to the north-west of Capernaum. The
   site would correspond with the name. For Kerâzeh is at present a spring
   with an insignificant ruin above it,' [3902] and the name Chorazin may
   well be derived from Keroz ({hebrew}) a water-jar - Cherozin, or
   Chorazin,' the water-jars. If so, we can readily understand that the
   Fisherton' on the south side of Capernaum, and the well-known springs,
   Chorazin,' on the other side of it, may have been the frequent scene of
   Christ's miracles. This explains also, in part, why the miracles there
   wrought had not been told as well as those done in Capernaum itself. In
   the Talmud a Chorazin, or rather Chorzim, is mentioned as celebrated
   for its wheat. [3903] But as for Capernaum itself - standing on that
   vast field of ruins and upturned stones which marks the site of the
   modern Tell Hûm, we feel that no description of it could be more
   pictorially true than that in which Christ prophetically likened the
   city in its downfall to the desolateness of death and Hades.'

   Whether or not the Seventy actually returned to Jesus before the Feast
   of Tabernacles, [3904] it is convenient to consider in this connection
   the result of their Mission. It had filled them with the joy' of
   assurance; nay, the result had exceeded their expectations, just as
   their faith had gone beyond the mere letter unto the spirit of His
   Words. As they reported it to Him, even the demons had been subject to
   them through His Name. In this they had exceeded the letter of Christ's
   commission; but as they made experiment of it, their faith had grown,
   and they had applied His command to heal the sick' to the worst of all
   sufferers, those grievously vexed by demons. And, as always, their
   faith was not disappointed. Nor could it be otherwise. The great
   contest had been long decided; it only remained for the faith of the
   Church to gather the fruits of that victory. The Prince of Light and
   Life had vanquished the Prince of Darkness and Death. The Prince of
   this world must be cast out. [3905] In spirit, Christ gazed on Satan
   fallen as lightning from heaven.' As one has aptly paraphrased it:
   [3906] While you cast out his subjects, I saw the prince himself fall.'
   It has been asked, whether the words of Christ referred to any
   particular event, such as His Victory in the Temptation. [3907] But any
   such limitation would imply grievous misunderstanding of the whole. So
   to speak, the fall of Satan is to the bottomless pit; ever going on to
   the final triumph of Christ. As the Lord beholds him, he is fallen from
   heaven - from the seat of power and of worship; for, his mastery is
   broken by the Stronger than he. And he is fallen like lightning, in its
   rapidity, dazzling splendour, and destructiveness. [3908] Yet as we
   perceive it, it is only demons cast out in His Name. For still is this
   fight and sight continued, and to all ages of the present dispensation.
   Each time the faith of the Church casts out demons - whether as
   formerly, or as they presently vex men, whether in the lighter combat
   about possession of the body, or in the sorer fight about possession of
   the soul - as Christ beholds it, it is ever Satan fallen. For, he sees
   of the travail of His soul, and is satisfied. And so also is there joy
   in heaven over every sinner that repenteth.

   The authority and power over the demons,' attained by faith, was not to
   pass away with the occasion that had called it forth. The Seventy were
   the representatives of the Church in her work of preparing for the
   Advent of Christ. As already indicated, the sight of Satan fallen from
   heaven is the continuous history of the Church. What the faith of the
   Seventy had attained was now to be made permanent to the Church, whose
   representatives they were. For, the words in which Christ now gave
   authority and power to tread on [3909] serpents and scorpions, and over
   all the power of the Enemy, and the promise that nothing should hurt
   them, could not have been addressed to the Seventy for a Mission which
   had now come to an end, except in so far as they represented the Church
   Universal. It is almost needless to add, that those serpents and
   scorpions' are not to be literally but symbolically understood. [3910]
   [3911] Yet it is not this power or authority which is to be the main
   joy either of the Church or the individual, but [3912] the fact that
   our names are written in heaven. [3913] And so Christ brings us back to
   His great teaching about the need of becoming children, and wherein
   lies the secret of true greatness in the Kingdom.

   It is beautifully in the spirit of all this, when we read that the joy
   of the disciples was met by that of the Master, and that His teaching
   presently merged into a prayer of thanksgiving. Throughout the
   occurrences since the Transfiguration, we have noticed an increasing
   antithesis to the teaching of the Rabbis. But it almost reached its
   climax in the thanksgiving, that the Father in heaven had hid these
   things from the wise and the understanding, and revealed them unto
   babes. As we view it in the light of those times, we know that the wise
   and understanding' - the Rabbi and the Scribe - could not, from their
   standpoint, have perceived them; nay, that it is matter of never-ending
   thanks that, not what they, but what the babes,' understood, was - as
   alone it could be - the subject of the Heavenly Father's revelation. We
   even tremble to think how it would have fared with the babes,' if the
   wise and understanding' had had part with them in the knowledge
   revealed. And so it must ever be, not only the Law of the kingdom and
   the fundamental principle of Divine Revelation, but matter for
   thanksgiving, that, not as wise and understanding,' but only as babes'
   - as converted,' like children' - we can share in that knowledge which
   maketh wise unto salvation. And this truly is the Gospel, and the
   Father's good pleasure. [3914]

   The words, [3915] with which Christ turned from this Address to the
   Seventy and thanksgiving to God, seem almost like the Father's answer
   to the prayer of the Son. They refer to, and explain, the authority
   which Jesus had bestowed on His Church: All things were delivered
   [3916] to Me of My Father;' and they afford the highest rationale for
   the fact, that these things had been hid from the wise and revealed
   unto babes. For, as no man, only the Father, could have full knowledge
   of the Son, and, conversely, no man, only the Son, had true knowledge
   of the Father, it followed, that this knowledge came to us, not of
   Wisdom or learning, but only through the Revelation of Christ: No one
   knoweth Who the Son is, save the Father; and Who the Father is, save
   the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son willeth to reveal Him.'

   St. Matthew, who also records this - although in a different
   connection, immediately after the denunciation of the unbelief of
   Chorazin, Bethsaida, and Capernaum - concludes this section by words
   which have ever since been the grand text of those who following in the
   wake of the Seventy, have been ambassadors for Christ. [3917] On the
   other hand, St. Luke concludes this part of his narrative by adducing
   words equally congruous to the occasion, [3918] which, indeed, are not
   new in the mouth of the Lord. [3919] From their suitableness to what
   had preceded, we can have little doubt that both that which St.
   Matthew, and that which St. Luke, reports was spoken on this occasion.
   Because knowledge of the Father came only through the Son, and because
   these things were hidden from the wise and revealed to babes,' did the
   gracious Lord open His Arms so wide, and bid all [3920] that laboured
   and were heavy laden come to HIM. These were the sheep, distressed and
   prostrate, whom to gather, that He might give them rest, He had sent
   forth the Seventy on a work, for which He had prayed the Father to
   thrust forth labourers, and which He has since entrusted to the faith
   and service of love of the Church. And the true wisdom, which qualified
   for the Kingdom, was to take up His yoke, which would be found easy,
   and a lightsome burden, not like that unbearable yoke of Rabbinic
   conditions; [3921] and the true understanding to be sought, was by
   learning of Him. In that wisdom of entering the Kingdom by taking up
   its yoke, and in that knowledge which came by learning of Him, Christ
   was Himself alike the true lesson and the best Teacher for those
   babes.' For He is meek and lowly in heart. He had done what He taught,
   and He taught what He had done; and so, by coming unto Him, would true
   rest be found for the soul.

   These words, as recorded by St. Matthew - the Evangelist of the Jews -
   must have sunk the deeper into the hearts of Christ's Jewish hearers,
   that they came in their own old familiar form of speech, yet with such
   contrast of spirit. One of the most common figurative expressions of
   the time was that of the yoke' ({hebrew}), to indicate submission to an
   occupation or obligation. Thus, we read not only of the yoke of the
   Law,' but of that to earthly governments,' and ordinary civil
   obligations.' [3922] Very instructive for the understanding of the
   figure is this paraphrase of Cant. i. 10: How beautiful is their neck
   for bearing the yoke of Thy statues; and it shall be upon them like the
   yoke on the neck of the ox that plougheth in the field, and provideth
   food for himself and his master.' [3923] [3924] This yoke might be cast
   off,' as the ten tribes had cast off that of God,' and thus brought on
   themselves their exile. [3925] On the other hand, to take upon oneself
   the yoke' ({hebrew}) meant to submit to it of free choice and
   deliberate resolution. Thus, in the allegorism of the Midrash, in the
   inscription, Prov. xxx. 1, concerning Agur, the son of Jakeh' - which
   is viewed as a symbolical designation of Solomon - the word Massa,'
   rendered in the Authorized Version prophecy,' is thus explained in
   reference to Solomon: Massa, because he lifted on himself (Nasa) the
   yoke of the Holy One, blessed be He.' [3926] And of Isaiah it was said,
   that he had been privileged to prophesy of so many blessings, because
   he had taken upon himself the yoke of the Kingdom of Heaven with joy.'
   [3927] [3928] And, as previously stated, it was set forth that in the
   Shema,' or Creed - which was repeated every day - the words, Deut. vi.
   4-9, were recited before those in xi. 13-21, so as first generally to
   take upon ourselves the yoke of the Kingdom of Heaven, and only
   afterwards that of the commandments.' [3929] [3930] And this yoke all
   Israel had taken upon itself, thereby gaining the merit ever afterwards
   imputed to them.

   Yet, practically, the yoke of the Kingdom' was none other than that of
   the Law' and of the commandments;' one of laborious performances and of
   impossible self-righteousness. It was unbearable,' not the easy' and
   lightsome yoke of Christ, in which the Kingdom of God was of faith, not
   of works. And, as if themselves to bear witness to this, we have this
   saying of theirs, terribly significant in this connection: Not like
   those formerly (the first), who made for themselves the yoke of the Law
   easy and light; but like those after them (those afterwards), who made
   the yoke of the Law upon them heavy!' [3931] And, indeed, this
   voluntary making of the yoke as heavy as possible, the taking on
   themselves as many obligations as possible, was the ideal of Rabbinic
   piety. There was, therefore, peculiar teaching and comfort in the words
   of Christ; and well might He add, as St. Luke reports, [3932] that
   blessed were they who saw and heard these things. [3933] For, that
   Messianic Kingdom, which had been the object of rapt vision and earnest
   longing to prophets and kings of old had now become reality. [3934]

   Abounding as this history is in contrasts, it seems not unlikely, that
   the scene next recorded by St. Luke [3935] stands in its right place.
   Such an inquiry on the part of a certain lawyer,' as to what he should
   do to inherit eternal life, together with Christ's Parabolic teaching
   about the Good Samaritan, is evidently congruous to the previous
   teaching of Christ about entering into the Kingdom of Heaven. Possibly,
   this Scribe may have understood the words of the Master about these
   things being hid from the wise, and the need of taking up the yoke of
   the Kingdom, as enforcing the views of those Rabbinic teachers, who
   laid more stress upon good works than upon study. Perhaps himself
   belonged to that minority, although his question was intended to tempt
   - to try whether the Master would stand the Rabbinic test, alike
   morally and dialectically. And, without at present entering on the
   Parable which gives Christ's final answer (and which will best be
   considered together with the others belonging to that period), it will
   be seen how peculiarly suited it was to the state of mind just
   supposed.

   From this interruption, which, but for the teaching of Christ connected
   with it, would have formed a terrible discord in the heavenly harmony
   of this journey, we turn to a far other scene. It follows in the course
   of St. Luke's narrative, and we have no reason to consider it out of
   its proper place. If so, it must mark the close of Christ's journey to
   the Feast of Tabernacles, since the home of Martha and Mary, to which
   it introduces us, was in Bethany, close to Jerusalem, almost one of its
   suburbs. Other indications, confirmatory of this note of time, are not
   wanting. Thus, the history which follows that of the home of Bethany,
   when one of His disciples asks Him to teach them to pray, as the
   Baptist had similarly taught his followers, seems to indicate, that
   they were then on the scene of John's former labours - north-east of
   Bethany; and, hence, that it occurred on Christ's return from
   Jerusalem. Again, from the narrative of Christ's reception in the house
   of Martha, we gather that Jesus had arrived in Bethany with His
   disciples, but that He alone was the guest of the two sisters. [3936]
   We infer that Christ had dismissed His disciples to go into the
   neighbouring City for the Feast, while Himself tarried in Bethany.
   Lastly, with all this agrees the notice in St. John vii. 14, that it
   was not at the beginning, but about the midst of the feast,' that Jesus
   went up into the Temple.' Although travelling on the two first festive
   days was not actually unlawful, yet we can scarcely conceive that Jesus
   would have done so - especially on the Feast of Tabernacles; and the
   inference is obvious, that Jesus had tarried in the immediate
   neighbourhood, as we know He did at Bethany in the house of Martha and
   Mary. [3937]

   Other things, also, do so explain themselves - notably, the absence of
   the brother of Martha and Mary, who probably spent the festive days in
   the City itself. It was the beginning of the Feast of Tabernacles, and
   the scene recorded by St. Luke [3938] would take place in the open
   leafy booth which served as the sitting apartment during the festive
   week. For, according to law, it was duty during the festive week to
   eat, sleep, pray, study - in short, to live - in these booths, which
   were to be constructed of the boughs of living trees. [3939] And,
   although this was not absolutely obligatory on women, [3940] yet, the
   rule which bade all make the booth the principal, and the house only
   the secondary dwelling,' [3941] would induce them to make this leafy
   tent at least the sitting apartment alike for men and women. And,
   indeed, those autumn days were just the season when it would be joy to
   sit in these delightful cool retreats - the memorials of Israel's
   pilgrim-days! They were high enough, and yet not too high; chiefly open
   in front; close enough to be shady, and yet not so close as to exclude
   sunlight and air. Such would be the apartment in which what is recorded
   passed; and, if we add that this booth stood probably in the court, we
   can picture to ourselves Martha moving forwards and backwards on her
   busy errands, and seeing, as she passed again and again, Mary still
   sitting a rapt listener, not heeding what passed around; and, lastly,
   how the elder sister could, as the language of verse 40 implies, enter
   so suddenly the Master's Presence, bringing her complaint.

   To understand this history, we must dismiss from our minds
   preconceived, though, perhaps, attractive thoughts. There is no
   evidence that the household of Bethany had previously belonged to the
   circle of Christ's professed disciples. It was, as the whole history
   shows, a wealthy home. It consisted of two sisters - the elder, Martha
   (a not uncommon Jewish name, [3942] being the feminine of Mar, [3943]
   and equivalent to our word mistress'); the younger, Mary; and their
   brother Lazarus, or, Laazar. [3944] Although we know not how it came,
   yet, evidently, the house was Martha's, and into it she received Jesus
   on His arrival in Bethany. It would have been no uncommon occurrence in
   Israel for a pious, wealthy lady to receive a great Rabbi into her
   house. But the present was not an ordinary case. Martha must have heard
   of Him, even if she had not seen Him. But, indeed, the whole narrative
   implies, [3945] that Jesus had come to Bethany with the view of
   accepting the hospitality of Martha, which probably had been proffered
   when some of those Seventy,' sojourning in the worthiest house at
   Bethany, had announced the near arrival of the Master. Still, her
   bearing affords only indication of being drawn towards Christ - at
   most, of a sincere desire to learn the good news, not of actual
   discipleship.

   And so Jesus came - and, with Him and in Him, Heaven's own Light and
   Peace. He was to lodge in one of the booths, the sisters in the house,
   and the great booth in the middle of the courtyard would be the common
   living apartment of all. It could not have been long after His arrival
   - it must have been almost immediately, that the sisters felt they had
   received more than an Angel unawares. How best to do Him honour, was
   equally the thought of both. To Martha it seemed, as if she could not
   do enough in showing Him all hospitality. And, indeed, this festive
   season was a busy time for the mistress of a wealthy household,
   especially in the near neighbourhood of Jerusalem, whence her brother
   might, after the first two festive days, bring with him, any time that
   week, honoured guests from the City. To these cares was now added that
   of doing sufficient honour to such a Guest - for she, also, deeply felt
   His greatness. And so she hurried to and fro through the courtyard,
   literally, distracted [3946] about much serving.'

   Her younger sister, also, would do Him all highest honour; but, not as
   Martha. Her homage consisted in forgetting all else but Him, Who spake
   as none had ever done. As truest courtesy or affection consists, nor in
   its demonstrations, but in being so absorbed in the object of it as to
   forget its demonstration, so with Mary in the Presence of Christ. And
   then a new Light, another Day had risen upon her; a fresh life had
   sprung up within her soul: She sat at the Lord's Feet, [3947] and heard
   his Word.' We dare not inquire, and yet we well know, of what it would
   be. And so, time after time - perhaps, hour after hour - as Martha
   passed on her busy way, she still sat listening and living. At last,
   the sister who, in her impatience, could not think that a woman could,
   in such manner, fulfill her duty, or show forth her religious
   profiting, broke in with what sounds like a querulous complaint: Lord,
   dost Thou not care that my sister did leave me to serve alone?' Mary
   had served with her, but she had now left her to do the work alone.
   Would the Master bid her resume her neglected work? But, with tone of
   gentle reproof and admonition, the affectionateness of which appeared
   even in the repetition of her name, Martha, Martha - as, similarly, on
   a later occasion, Simon, Simon - did He teach her in words which,
   however simple in their primary meaning, are so full, that they have
   ever since borne the most many-sided application: Thou art careful and
   anxious about many things; but one thing is needful; [3948] and Mary
   hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her.'

   It was, as we imagine, perhaps the first day of, or else the
   preparation for, the Feast. More than that one day did Jesus tarry in
   the home of Bethany. Whether Lazarus came then to see Him - and, still
   more, what both Martha and Mary learned, either then, or afterwards, we
   reverently forbear to search into. Suffice it, that though the natural
   disposition of the sisters remained what it had been, yet henceforth,
   Jesus loved Martha and her sister.'
     __________________________________________________________________

   [3870] Perhaps this may be a fuller English equivalent than appoint.'

   [3871] The reading: Seventy-two' seems a correction, made for obvious
   reasons.

   [3872] St. John xi. 54.

   [3873] St. Matt. x. 5 &c.; St. Mark vi. 7 &c.; St. Luke ix. 1 &c.

   [3874] Num. xi. 16.

   [3875] In Bemidb. R. 15, ed. Warsh. p. 64 b, the mode of electing these
   Seventy is thus described. Moses chose six from every tribe, and then
   put into an urn seventy-two lots, of which seventy had the word Zaqen
   (Elder) inscribed on them, while two were blanks. The latter are
   supposed to have been drawn by Eldad and Medad.

   [3876] Comp. Sanh. i. 6.

   [3877] St. Matt. xi. 7-19.

   [3878] St. Matt. xi. 20-24; comp. with St. Luke x. 12-16.

   [3879] St. Matt. ix. 36-38.

   [3880] St. John iv. 35.

   [3881] The first word means literally torn.' The second occurs
   sixty-two times in the LXX. as equivalent for the Hebrew (Hiphil)
   Hishlikh, projicio, abjicio.

   [3882] St. Luke x. 2.

   [3883] See Book III. ch. xxvii.

   [3884] St. Matt. x. 7, 8; comp. St. Luke x. 9.

   [3885] Ber. 30 b.

   [3886] u.s. 32 b.

   [3887] But it might be interrupted for a scorpion, Ber. 33 a. Comp.
   page 141, note 1.

   [3888] Ber. 14 a.

   [3889] Ber. 14 a; 32 b.

   [3890] St. Luke x. 6.

   [3891] St. Matt. x. 13.

   [3892] Comp. Job xxi. 9, both in the original and the Targum.

   [3893] St. Luke x. 7, 8.

   [3894] Canon Cook (ad loc.) regards this as evidence that the Seventy
   were also sent to the Samaritans; and as implying permission to eat of
   their food, which the Jews held to be forbidden. To me it conveys the
   opposite, since so fundamental an alteration would not have been
   introduced in such an indirect manner. Besides, the direction is not to
   eat their food, but any kind of food. Lastly, if Christ had introduced
   so vital a change, the later difficulty of St. Peter, and the vision on
   the subject, would not be intelligible.

   [3895] St. Matt. xi. 16-42.

   [3896] St. Luke x. 13-16.

   [3897] St. Matt. xi. 20-24.

   [3898] St. John xxi. 25.

   [3899] Fasting in sackcloth and ashes' was the practice in public
   humiliations (Taan. ii. 1).

   [3900] The R.V., following what are regarded as some of the best MSS.,
   renders it interrogatively: Shalt thou be exalted,' &c.? But such a
   question is not only without precedent, but really yields no meaning.
   We have, therefore, adopted the reading of Alford, Meyer, &c., which
   only differs in tense from the A.V.

   [3901] See Book III. ch. xxxi.

   [3902] Canon Tristram.

   [3903] Menach. 85 a; comp. Neubauer, p. 220.

   [3904] Godet infers this from the use of the word returned,' St. Luke
   x. 17.

   [3905] St. John xii. 31.

   [3906] Godet, ad loc.

   [3907] So far from seeing here, with Wünsche (ad loc.), Jewish notions
   about Satan, I hold that in the Satanology of the New Testament,
   perhaps more than anywhere else, do we mark not only difference, but
   contrast, to Jewish views.

   [3908] Rev. xii. 7-12.

   [3909] The word over (on,' A. V.) must be connected with power.'

   [3910] Comp. Ps. xci. 13; St. Mark xvi. 18.

   [3911] I presume, that in the same symbolical sense must be understood
   the Haggadah about a great Rabbinic Saint, whom a serpent bit without
   harming him, and then immediately died. The Rabbi brought it to his
   disciples with the words: It is not the serpent that killeth, but sin
   (Ber. 33 a).

   [3912] The word rather' in the A.V. is spurious.

   [3913] The figure is one current in Scripture (comp. Exod. xxxii. 32:
   Is. iv. 3; Dan. xii. 1). But the Rabbis took it in a grossly literal
   manner, and spoke of three books opened every New Year's Day - those of
   the pious, the wicked, and the intermediate (Rosh haSh. 16 b).

   [3914] This is a common Jewish formula: {hebrew}.

   [3915] St. Luke x. 22.

   [3916] The tense should here be marked.

   [3917] St. Matt. xi. 28-30.

   [3918] St. Luke x. 23, 24.

   [3919] Comp. St. Matt. xiii. 16.

   [3920] Melanchthon writes: In this "All" thou art to include thyself,
   and not to think that thou dost not belong thereto; thou art not to
   search for another register of God.'

   [3921] Acts xv. 10.

   [3922] Abhoth iii. 5.

   [3923] Targum, ad loc.

   [3924] Similarly we read of the yoke of repentance' (Moed K. 16 b), of
   that of man,' or rather of flesh and blood' (Ab. de R. Nath. 20), &c.

   [3925] Shemoth R. 30.

   [3926] Midr. Shoch. Tobh. ed. Lemb. p. 20 a.

   [3927] Yalkut ii. p. 43 a, Section 275, lines 10 &c. from bottom.

   [3928] This is mentioned as an answer given in the great Academy of
   Jerusalem by Elijah the prophet to a question propounded to him by a
   student.

   [3929] Ber. ii. 2.

   [3930] Comp. Sketches of Jewish Social Life,' p. 270.

   [3931] Sanh. 94 b, middle.

   [3932] St. Luke x. 23, 24.

   [3933] In a rapt description of the Messianic glory (Pesiqta, ed.
   Buber. 149 a, end) we read that Israel shall exult in His light,
   saying: Blessed the hour in which the Messiah has been created; blessed
   the womb that bare Him; blessed the eye that sees Him; blessed the eye
   that is deemed worthy to behold Him, for the opening of his lips is
   blessing and peace, &c.' It is a strange coincidence, to say the least,
   that this passage occurs in a Lecture' on the portion of the prophets
   (Is. Lxi. 10), which at present is read in the Synagogues on a Sabbath
   close to the Feast of Tabernacles.

   [3934] The same words were spoken on a previous occasion (St. Matt.
   xiii. 16), after the Parable of the Sower.

   [3935] St. Luke x. 25 &c.

   [3936] St. Luke x. 38.

   [3937] No one who impartially reads St. John xi. can doubt, that the
   persons there introduced are the Martha and Mary of this history, nor
   hence that their home was in Bethany.

   [3938] x. 38-42.

   [3939] Comp. The Temple and its Services,' p. 237, &c.

   [3940] Sukk. ii. 8.

   [3941] u.s. 9.

   [3942] See Levy, Neuhebr. Wörterb. ad voc.

   [3943] Martha occurs, however, also as a male name (in the Aramaic).

   [3944] The name Laazar ({hebrew}), or Lazar, occurs frequently in
   Talmudic writings as an abbreviated form of Elazar or Eleazar
   ({hebrew}).

   [3945] Comp. St. Luke x. 38.

   [3946] periespto.

   [3947] This, instead of Jesus,' is the reading more generally received
   as correct.

   [3948] Few would be disposed to adopt the proposed alternative reading
   (R.V., margin): but few things are needful, or one' - meaning, not much
   preparation, indeed, only one dish is necessary.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER VI.
AT THE FEAST OF TABERNACLES - FIRST DISCOURSE IN THE TEMPLE

   (St. John vii. 11-36.)

   IT was Chol ha Moed - as the non-sacred part of the festive week, the
   half-holy days were called. [3949] Jerusalem, the City of Solemnities,
   the City of Palaces, the City of beauty and glory, wore quite another
   than its usual aspect; other, even, than when its streets were thronged
   by festive pilgrims during the Passover-week, or at Pentecost. For this
   was pre-eminently the Feast for foreign pilgrims, coming from the
   farthest distance, whose Temple-contributions were then received and
   counted. [3950] Despite the strange costumes of Media, Arabia, Persia,
   or India, and even further; or the Western speech and bearing of the
   pilgrims from Italy, Spain, the modern Crimea, and the banks of the
   Danube, if not from yet more strange and barbarous lands, it would not
   be difficult to recognise the lineaments of the Jew, nor to perceive
   that to change one's clime was not to change one's mind. As the
   Jerusalemite would look with proud self-consciousness, not unmingled
   with kindly patronage, on the swarthy strangers, yet fellow-countrymen,
   or the eager-eyed Galilean curiously stare after them, the pilgrims
   would, in turn, gaze with mingled awe and wonderment on the novel
   scene. Here was the realisation of their fondest dreams ever since
   childhood, the home and spring of their holiest thoughts and best hopes
   - that which gave inward victory to the vanquished, and converted
   persecution into anticipated triumph.

   They could come at this season of the year - not during the winter for
   the Passover, nor yet quite so readily in summer's heat for Pentecost.
   But now, in the delicious cool of early autumn, when all
   harvest-operations, the gathering in of luscious fruit and the vintage
   were past, and the first streaks of gold were tinting the foliage,
   strangers from afar off, and countrymen from Judæa, Peræa, and Galilee,
   would mingle in the streets of Jerusalem, under the ever-present shadow
   of that glorious Sanctuary of marble, cedarwood, and gold, up there on
   high Moriah, symbol of the infinitely more glorious overshadowing
   Presence of Him, Who was the Holy One in the midst of Israel. How all
   day long, even till the stars lit up the deep blue canopy over head,
   the smoke of the burning, smouldering sacrifices rose in
   slowly-widening column, and hung between the Mount of Olives and Zion;
   how the chant of Levites, and the solemn responses of the Hallel were
   borne on the breeze, or the clear blast of the Priests silver trumpets
   seemed to waken the echoes far away! And then, at night, how all these
   vast Temple-buildings stood out, illuminated by the great Candelabras
   that burned in the Court of the Women, and by the glare of torches,
   when strange sound of mystic hymns and dances came floating over the
   intervening darkness! Truly, well might Israel designate the Feast of
   Tabernacles as the Feast' (haChag), and the Jewish historian describe
   it as the holiest and greatest.' [3951] [3952]

   Early on the 14th Tishri (corresponding to our September or early
   October), all the festive pilgrims had arrived. Then it was, indeed, a
   scene of bustle and activity. Hospitality had to be sought and found;
   guests to be welcomed and entertained; all things required for the
   feast to be got ready. Above all, booths must be erected everywhere -
   in court and on housetop, in street and square, for the lodgment and
   entertainment of that vast multitude; leafy dwellings everywhere, to
   remind of the wilderness-journey, and now of the goodly land. Only that
   fierce castle, Antonia, which frowned above the Temple, was undecked by
   the festive spring into which the land had burst. To the Jew it must
   have been a hateful sight, that castle, which guarded and dominated his
   own City and Temple - hateful sight and sounds, that Roman garrison,
   with its foreign, heathen, ribald speech and manners. Yet, for all
   this, Israel could not read on the lowering sky the signs of the times,
   nor yet knew the day of their merciful visitation. And this, although
   of all festivals, that of Tabernacles should have most clearly pointed
   them to the future.

   Indeed, the whole symbolism of the Feast, beginning with the completed
   harvest, for which it was a thanksgiving, pointed to the future. The
   Rabbis themselves admitted this. The strange number of sacrificial
   bullocks - seventy in all - they regarded as referring to the seventy
   nations' of heathendom. [3953] The ceremony of the outpouring of water,
   which was considered of such vital importance as to give to the whole
   festival the name of House of Outpouring,' [3954] was symbolical of the
   outpouring of the Holy Spirit. [3955] As the brief night of the great
   Temple-illumination closed, there was solemn testimony made before
   Jehovah against heathenism. It must have been a stirring scene, when
   from out of the mass of Levites, with their musical instruments, who
   crowded the fifteen steps that led from the Court of Israel to that of
   the Women, stepped two priests with their silver trumpets. As the first
   cockcrowing intimated the dawn of morn, they blew a threefold blast;
   another on the tenth step, and yet another threefold blast as they
   entered the Court of the Women. And still sounding their trumpets, they
   marched through the Court of the Women to the Beautiful Gate. Here,
   turning round and facing westwards to the Holy Place, they repeated:
   Our fathers, who were in this place, they turned their backs on the
   Sanctuary of Jehovah, and their faces eastward, for they worshipped
   eastward, the sun; but we, our eyes are towards Jehovah.' We are
   Jehovah's - our eyes are towards Jehovah.' [3956] [3957] Nay, the whole
   of this night- and morning-scene was symbolical: the
   Temple-illumination, of the light which was to shine from out the
   Temple into the dark night of heathendom; then, at the first dawn of
   morn the blast of the priests' silver trumpets, of the army of God, as
   it advanced, with festive trumpet-sound and call, to awaken the
   sleepers, marching on to quite the utmost bounds of the Sanctuary, to
   the Beautiful Gate, which opened upon the Court of the Gentiles - and,
   then again, facing round to utter solemn protest against heathenism,
   and make solemn confession of Jehovah!

   But Jesus did not appear in the Temple during the first two festive
   days. The pilgrims from all parts of the country - perhaps, they from
   abroad also - had expected Him there, for everyone would now speak of
   Him - not openly,' in Jerusalem, for they were afraid of their rulers.
   It was hardly safe to speak of Him without reserve. But they sought
   Him, and inquired after Him - and they did speak of Him, though there
   was only a murmuring - a low, confused discussion of the pro and con,
   in this great controversy among the multitudes,' [3958] or festive
   bands from various parts. Some said: He is a good man, while others
   declared that He only led astray the common, ignorant populace. And
   now, all at once, in Chol ha Moed, [3959] Jesus Himself appeared in the
   Temple, and taught. We know that, on a later occasion, [3960] He walked
   and taught in Solomon's Porch,' and, from the circumstance that the
   early disciples made this their common meeting-place, [3961] we may
   draw the inference that it was here the people now found Him. Although
   neither Josephus nor the Mishnah mention this Porch' by name, [3962] we
   have every reason for believing that it was the eastern colonnade,
   which abutted against the Mount of Olives and faced the Beautiful
   Gate,' that formed the principal entrance into the Court of the Women,'
   and so into the Sanctuary. For, all along the inside of the great wall
   which formed the Temple-enclosure ran a double colonnade - each column
   a monolith of white marble, 25 cubits high, covered with cedar-beams.
   That on the south side (leading from the western entrance to Solomon's
   Porch), known as the Royal Porch,' was a threefold colonnade,
   consisting of four rows of columns, each 27 cubits high, and surmounted
   by Corinthian capitals. We infer that the eastern was Solomon's Porch,'
   from the circumstance that it was the only relic left of Solomon's
   Temple. [3963] These colonnades, which, from their ample space, formed
   alike places for quiet walk and for larger gatherings, had benches in
   them - and, from the liberty of speaking and teaching in Israel, Jesus
   might here address the people in the very face of His enemies.

   We know not what was the subject of Christ's teaching on this occasion.
   But the effect on the people was one of general astonishment. They knew
   what common unlettered Galilean tradesmen were - but this, whence came
   it? [3964] How does this one know literature (letters, learning),
   [3965] never having learned?' To the Jews there was only one kind of
   learning - that of Theology; and only one road to it - the Schools of
   the Rabbis. Their major was true, but their minor false - and Jesus
   hastened to correct it. He had, indeed, learned,' but in a School quite
   other than those which alone they recognised. Yet, on their own
   showing, it claimed the most absolute submission. Among the Jews a
   Rabbi's teaching derived authority from the fact of its accordance with
   tradition - that it accurately represented what had been received from
   a previous great teacher, and so on upwards to Moses, and to God
   Himself. On this ground Christ claimed the highest authority. His
   doctrine was not His own invention - it was the teaching of Him that
   sent Him. The doctrine was God-received, and Christ was sent direct
   from God to bring it. He was God's messenger of it to them. [3966] Of
   this twofold claim there was also twofold evidence. Did He assert that
   what He taught was God-received? Let trial be made of it. Everyone who
   in his soul felt drawn towards God; each one who really willeth to do
   His Will,' would know concerning this teaching, whether it is of God,'
   or whether it was of man. [3967] It was this felt, though unrealised
   influence which had drawn all men after Him, so that they hung on His
   lips. It was this which, in the hour of greatest temptation and mental
   difficulty, had led Peter, in name of the others, to end the sore inner
   contest by laying hold on this fact: To whom shall we go? Thou hast the
   words of eternal life - and we have believed and know, that Thou art
   the Holy One of God.' [3968] Marking, as we pass, that this inward
   connection between that teaching and learning and the present occasion,
   may be the deeper reason why, in the Gospel by St. John, the one
   narrative is immediately followed by the other, we pause to say, how
   real it hath proved in all ages and to all stages of Christian learning
   - that the heart makes the truly God-taught (pectus facit Theologum'),
   and that inward, true aspiration after the Divine prepares the eye to
   behold the Divine Reality in the Christ. But, if it be so is there not
   evidence here, that He is the God-sent - that He is a real, true
   Ambassador of God? If Jesus' teaching meets and satisfies our moral
   nature, if it leads up to God, is He not the Christ?

   And this brings us to the second claim which Christ made, that of being
   sent by God. There is yet another logical link in His reasoning. He had
   said: He shall know of the teaching, whether it be of God, or whether I
   speak from Myself.' From Myself? Why, there is this other test of it:
   Who speaketh from himself, seeketh his own glory' - there can be no
   doubt or question of this, but do I seek My own glory? - But He Who
   seeketh the glory of Him Who sent Him, He is true (a faithful
   messenger), and unrighteousness is not in Him.' [3969] Thus did Christ
   appeal and prove it: My doctrine is of God, and I am sent of God!

   Sent of God, no unrighteousness in Him! And yet at that very moment
   there hung over Him the charge of defiance of the Law of Moses, nay, of
   that of God, in an open breach of the Sabbath-commandment - there, in
   that very City, the last time He had been in Jerusalem; for which, as
   well as for His Divine claims, the Jews were even then seeking to kill
   Him.' [3970] And this forms the transition to what may be called the
   second part of Christ's address. If, in the first part, the Jewish form
   of ratiocination was already apparent, it seems almost impossible for
   any one acquainted with those forms to understand how it can be
   overlooked in what follows. [3971] It is exactly the mode in which a
   Jew would argue with Jews, only the substance of the reasoning is to
   all times and people. Christ is defending Himself against a charge
   which naturally came up, when He claimed that His Teaching was of God
   and Himself God's real and faithful Messenger. In His reply the two
   threads of the former argument are taken up. Doing is the condition of
   knowledge - and a messenger had been sent from God! Admittedly, Moses
   was such, and yet every one of them was breaking the Law which he had
   given them; for, were they not seeking to kill Him without right or
   justice? This, put in the form of a double question, [3972] represents
   a peculiarly Jewish mode of argumentation, behind which lay the
   terrible truth, that those, whose hearts were so little longing to do
   the Will of God, not only must remain ignorant of His Teaching as that
   of God, but had also rejected that of Moses.

   A general disclaimer, a cry Thou hast a demon' (art possessed), who
   seeks to kill Thee?' here broke in upon the Speaker. But He would not
   be interrupted, and continued: One work I did, and all you wonder on
   account of it' [3973] - referring to His healing on the Sabbath, and
   their utter inability to understand His conduct. Well, then, Moses was
   a messenger of God, and I am sent of God. Moses gave the law of
   circumcision - not, indeed, that it was of his authority, but had long
   before been God-given - and, to observe this law, no one hesitated to
   break the Sabbath, [3974] since, according to Rabbinic principle, a
   positive ordinance superseded a negative. And yet, when Christ, as sent
   from God, made a man every whit whole on the Sabbath (made a whole man
   sound') they were angry with Him! [3975] Every argument which might
   have been urged in favour of the postponement of Christ's healing to a
   week-day, would equally apply to that of circumcision; while every
   reason that could be urged in favour of Sabbath-circumcision, would
   tell an hundredfold in favour of the act of Christ. Oh, then, let them
   not judge after the mere outward appearance, but judge the right
   judgment.' And, indeed, had it not been to convince them of the
   externalism of their views, that Jesus had on that Sabbath opened the
   great controversy between the letter that killeth and the spirit that
   maketh alive, when He directed the impotent man to carry home the bed
   on which he had lain?

   If any doubt could obtain, how truly Jesus had gauged the existing
   state of things, when He contrasted heart-willingness to do the Will of
   God, as the necessary preparation for the reception of His God-sent
   Teaching, with their murderous designs, springing from blind literalism
   and ignorance of the spirit of their Law, the reported remarks of some
   Jerusalemites in the crowd would suffice to convince us. [3976] The
   fact that He, Whom they sought to kill, was suffered to speak openly,
   seemed to them incomprehensible. Could it be that the authorities were
   shaken in their former idea about Him, and now regarded Him as the
   Messiah? But it could not be. [3977] It was a settled popular belief,
   and, in a sense, not quite unfounded, that the appearance of the
   Messiah would be sudden and unexpected. He might be there, and not be
   known; or He might come, and be again hidden for a time. [3978] [3979]
   As they put it, when Messiah came, no one would know whence He was; but
   they all knew whence this One' was. And with this rough and ready
   argument of a coarse realism, they, like so many among us, settled
   off-hand and once for all the great question. But Jesus could not, even
   for the sake of His poor weak disciples, let it rest there. Therefore'
   He lifted up His voice, [3980] that it reached the dispersing, receding
   multitude. Yes, they thought they knew both Him and whence He came. It
   would have been so had He come from Himself. But He had been sent, and
   He that sent Him was real;' [3981] it was a real Mission, and Him, who
   had thus sent the Christ, they knew not. And so, with a reaffirmation
   of His twofold claim, His Discourse closed. [3982] But they had
   understood His allusions, and in their anger would fain have laid hands
   on Him, but His hour had not come. Yet others were deeply stirred to
   faith. As they parted they spoke of it among themselves, and the sum of
   it all was: The Christ, when He cometh, will He do more miracles
   (signs) than this One did?'

   So ended the first teaching of that day in the Temple. And as the
   people dispersed, the leaders of the Pharisees - who, no doubt aware of
   the presence of Christ in the Temple, yet unwilling to be in the number
   of His hearers, had watched the effect of His Teaching - overheard the
   low, furtive, half-outspoken remarks (the murmuring') of the people
   about Him. Presently they conferred with the heads of the priesthood
   and the chief Temple-officials. [3983] Although there was neither
   meeting, nor decree of the Sanhedrin about it, nor, indeed, could be,
   [3984] orders were given to the Temple-guard on the first possible
   occasion to seize Him. Jesus was aware of it, and as, either on this or
   another day, He was moving in the Temple, watched by the spies of the
   rulers and followed by a mingled crowd of disciples and enemies, deep
   sadness in view of the end filled His heart. Jesus therefore said' - no
   doubt to His disciples, though in the hearing of all - yet a little
   while am I with you, then I go away [3985] to Him that sent Me. Ye
   shall seek Me, and not find Me; and where I am, thither ye cannot
   come.' [3986] Mournful words, these, which were only too soon to become
   true. But those who heard them naturally failed to comprehend their
   meaning. Was He about to leave Palestine, and go to the Diaspora of the
   Greeks, among the dispersed who lived in heathen lands, to teach the
   Greeks? Or what could be His meaning? But we, who hear it across these
   centuries, feel as if their question, like the suggestion of the
   High-Priest at a later period, nay like so many suggestions of men, had
   been, all unconsciously, prophetic of the future.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [3949] Also Cholo shel Moed and Moed Qaton.

   [3950] See ch. iii. of this Book.

   [3951] Jos. Ant. viii. 4. 1.

   [3952] For a full description of the Feast of Tabernacles in the days
   of Christ, I must refer to The Temple and its Services.'

   [3953] Sukk. 55 b; Pesiqta, ed. Buber, p. 17 a; 194 a; Shabb. 88 b.

   [3954] Sukk. v. 1.

   [3955] Jer. Sukk. v. 1, p. 55 a.

   [3956] Sukk. v. 4.

   [3957] This second form is according to R. Jenudah's tradition.

   [3958] In the plural it occurs only in this place in St. John, and once
   in St. Mark (vi. 33), but sixteen times in St. Luke, and still more
   frequently in St. Matthew.

   [3959] See above, p. 148.

   [3960] St. John x. 23.

   [3961] Acts v. 12.

   [3962] This, as showing such local knowledge on the part of the Fourth
   Gospel, must be taken as additional evidence of its Johannine
   authorship, just as the mention of that Porch in the Book of Acts
   points to a Jerusalem source of information.

   [3963] Jos. Ant. xv. 11. 5; xx. 9. 7.

   [3964] St. John vii. 15.

   [3965] Comp. Acts xxvi. 24.

   [3966] St. John vii. 16-17.

   [3967] The passage quoted by Canon Westcott from Ab. ii. 4 does not
   seem to be parallel.

   [3968] St. John vi. 68, 69.

   [3969] St. John vii. 18.

   [3970] St. John v. 18.

   [3971] I regard this as almost overwhelming evidence against the theory
   of an Ephesian authority of the Fourth Gospel. Even the double question
   in ver. 19 is here significant.

   [3972] St. John vii. 19, 20.

   [3973] The words on account of it,' rendered in the A.V. therefore,'
   and placed in ver. 22 (St. John vii.), really form the close of ver.
   21. At any rate, they cannot be taken in the sense of therefore.'

   [3974] This was a well-recognized Rabbinic principle. Comp. for example
   Shabb. 132 a, where the argument runs that, if circumcision, which
   applies to one of the 248 members, of which, according to the Rabbis,
   the human body consists, superseded the Sabbath, how much more the
   preservation of the whole body.

   [3975] vv. 21-24.

   [3976] St. John vii. 25-27.

   [3977] In the original: Can it be?'.

   [3978] Comp. also Sanh. 97 a; Midr. on Cant. ii. 10.

   [3979] See Book II. ch. v., and Appendix IX.

   [3980] Cried.'

   [3981] The word lethins has not an exact English equivalent, scarcely a
   German one (wahrhaftig ?). It is a favourite word of St. John's, who
   uses it eight times in his Gospel, or, if the Revised reading viii. 16
   be adopted, nine times (i. 9; iv. 23, 37; vi. 32; vii. 28; viii. 16 ?;
   xv. 1; xvii. 3; xix. 35); and four times in his First Epistle (ii. 8,
   and three times in ch. v. 20). Its Johannine meaning is perhaps best
   seen when in juxtaposition with leths (for example, 1 John ii. 8). But
   in the Book of Revelation, where it occurs ten times (iii. 7, 14; vi.
   10; xv. 3; xvi. 7; xix. 2, 9, 11; xxi. 5; xxii. 6), it has another
   meaning, and can scarcely be distinguished from our English true.' It
   is used, in the same sense as in St. John's Gospel and Epistle, in St.
   Luke xvi. 11, in 1 Thess. i 9; and three times in the Epistle to the
   Hebrews (viii. 2; ix. 24; x. 22). We may, therefore, regard it as a
   word to which a Grecian, not a Judæan meaning attaches. In our view it
   refers to the true as the real, and the real as that which has become
   outwardly true. I do not quite understand, and, so far as I understand
   it, I do not agree with, the view of Cremer (Bibl. Theol. Lex., Engl.
   ed. p. 85), that lethins is related to leths as form to contents or
   substance.' The distinction between the Judæan and the Grecian meaning
   is not only borne out by the Book of Revelation (which uses it in the
   Judæan sense), but by Ecclus. xlii. 2. 11. In the LXX. it stands for
   not fewer than twelve Hebrew words.

   [3982] St. John vii. 29.

   [3983] On the heads and chief officials of the Priesthood, see The
   Temple and its Services,' ch. iv., especially pp. 75-77.

   [3984] Only those unacquainted with the judicial procedure of the
   Sanhedrin could imagine that there had been a regular meeting and
   decree of that tribunal. That would have required a formal accusation,
   witnesses, examination, &c.

   [3985] Canon Westcott marks, that the word here used (pgo) indicates a
   personal act, while another word (poreomai) marks a purpose or mission,
   and yet a third word (prchomai) expresses simple separation.

   [3986] vv. 33, 34.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER VII.
IN THE LAST, THE GREAT DAY OF THE FEAST'

   (St. John vii. 37 - viii. 11.)

   IT was the last, the great day of the Feast,' and Jesus was once more
   in the Temple. We can scarcely doubt that it was the concluding day of
   the Feast, and not, as most modern writers suppose, its Octave, which,
   in Rabbinic language, was regarded as a festival by itself.' [3987]
   [3988] But such solemn interest attaches to the Feast, and this
   occurrence on its last day, that we must try to realise the scene. We
   have here the only Old Testament type yet unfilfilled; the only Jewish
   festival which has no counterpart in the cycle of the Christian year,
   [3989] just because it points forward to that great, yet unfulfilled
   hope of the Church: the ingathering of Earth's nations to the Christ.

   The celebration of the Feast corresponded to its great meaning. Not
   only did all the priestly families minister during that week, but it
   has been calculated that not fewer than 446 Priests, with, of course, a
   corresponding number of Levites, were required for its sacrificial
   worship. In general, the services were the same every day, except that
   the number of bullocks offered decreased daily from thirteen on the
   first, to seven on the seventh day. Only during the first two, and on
   the last festive day (as also on the Octave of the Feast), was strict
   Sabbatic rest enjoined. On the intervening half-holidays (Chol haMoed),
   although no new labour was to be undertaken, unless in the public
   service, the ordinary and necessary avocations of the home and of life
   were carried on, and especially all done that was required for the
   festive season. But the last, the Great Day of the Feast,' was marked
   by special observances.

   Let us suppose ourselves in the number of worshippers, who on the last,
   the Great Day of the Feast,' are leaving their booths' at daybreak to
   take part in the service. The pilgrims are all in festive array. In his
   right hand each carries what is called the Lulabh, [3990] which,
   although properly meaning a branch,' or palm-branch,' consisted of a
   myrtle and willow-branch tied together with a palm-branch between them.
   This was supposed to be in fulfilment of the command, Lev. xxiii. 40.
   The fruit (A.V. boughs') of the goodly trees,' mentioned in the same
   verse of Scripture, was supposed to be the Ethrog, the so-called
   Paradise-apple (according to Ber. R. 15, the fruit of the forbidden
   tree), a species of citron. [3991] This Ethrog each worshipper carries
   in his left hand. It is scarcely necessary to add, that this
   interpretation of Lev. xxiii. 40 was given by the Rabbis; [3992]
   perhaps more interesting to know, that this was one of the points in
   controversy between the Pharisees and Sadducees.

   Thus armed with Lulabh in their right, and Ethrog in their left hands,
   the festive multitude would divide into three bands. Some would remain
   in the Temple to attend the preparation of the Morning Sacrifice.
   Another band would go in procession below Jerusalem' [3993] to a place
   called Moza, the Kolonia' of the Jerusalem Talmud, [3994] which some
   have sought to identify with the Emmaus of the Resurrection-Evening.
   [3995] At Moza they cut down willow-branches, with which, amidst the
   blasts of the Priests' trumpets, they adorned the altar, forming a
   leafy canopy about it. Yet a third company were taking part in a still
   more interesting service. To the sound of music a procession started
   from the Temple. It followed a Priest who bore a golden pitcher,
   capable of holding three log. [3996] Onwards it passed, probably,
   through Ophel, which recent investigations have shown to have been
   covered with buildings to the very verge of Siloam, down the edge of
   the Tyropoeon Valley, where it merges into that of the Kedron. To this
   day terraces mark where the gardens, watered by the living spring,
   extended from the King's Gardens by the spring Rogel down to the
   entrance into the Tyropoeon. Here was the so-called Fountain-Gate,' and
   still within the City-wall the Pool of Siloam,' the overflow of which
   fed a lower pool. As already stated it was at the merging of the
   Tyropoeon into the Kedron Valley, in the south-eastern angle of
   Jerusalem. The Pool of Siloam was fed by the living spring farther up
   in the narrowest part of the Kedron Valley, which presently bears the
   name of the Virgin's Fountain,' but represents the ancient En-Rogel and
   Gihon. Indeed, the very canal which led from the one to the other, with
   the inscription of the workmen upon it, has lately been excavated.
   [3997] Though chiefly of historical interest, a sentence may be added.
   The Pool of Siloam is the same as the King's Pool' of Neh. ii. 14.
   [3998] It was made by King Hezekiah, in order both to divert from a
   besieging army the spring of Gihon, which could not be brought within
   the City-wall, and yet to bring its waters within the City. [3999] This
   explains the origin of the name Siloam, sent' - a conduit [4000] -  or
   Siloah,' as Josephus calls it. Lastly, we remember that it was down in
   the valley at Gihon (or En-Rogel), that Solomon was proclaimed, [4001]
   while the opposite faction held revel, and would have made Adonijah
   king, on the cliff Zoheleth (the modern Zahweileh) right over against
   it, not a hundred yards distant, [4002] where they must, of course,
   have distinctly heard the sound of the trumpets and the shouts of the
   people as Solomon was proclaimed king. [4003]

   But to return. When the Temple-procession had reached the Pool of
   Siloam, the Priest filled his golden pitcher from its waters. [4004]
   Then they went back to the Temple, so timing it, that they should
   arrive just as they were laying the pieces of the sacrifice on the
   great Altar of Burnt-offering, [4005] towards the close of the ordinary
   Morning-Sacrifice service. A threefold blast of the Priests' trumpets
   welcomed the arrival of the Priest, as he entered through the
   Water-gate,' [4006] which obtained its name from this ceremony, and
   passed straight into the Court of the Priests. Here he was joined by
   another Priest, who carried the wine for the drink-offering. The two
   Priests ascended the rise' of the altar, and turned to the left. There
   were two silver funnels here, with narrow openings, leading down to the
   base of the altar. Into that at the east, which was somewhat wider, the
   wine was poured, and, at the same time, the water into the western and
   narrower opening, the people shouting to the Priest to raise his hand,
   so as to make sure that he poured the water into the funnel. For,
   although it was held, that the water-pouring was an ordinance
   instituted by Moses, a Halakhah of Moses from Sinai,' [4007] this was
   another of the points disputed by the Sadducees. [4008] And, indeed, to
   give practical effect to their views, the High-Priest Alexander Jannæus
   had on one occasion poured the water on the ground, when he was nearly
   murdered, and in the riot, that ensued, six thousand persons were
   killed in the Temple. [4009]

   Immediately after the pouring of water,' the great Hallel,' consisting
   of Psalms cxiii. to cxviii. (inclusive), was chanted antiphonally, or
   rather, with responses, to the accompaniment of the flute. As the
   Levites intoned the first line of each Psalm, the people repeated it;
   while to each of the other lines they responded by Hallelu Yah (Praise
   ye the Lord'). But in Psalm cxviii. the people not only repeated the
   first line, O give thanks to the Lord,' but also these, O then, work
   now salvation, Jehovah,' [4010] O Lord, send now prosperity;' [4011]
   and again, at the close of the Psalm, O give thanks to the Lord.' As
   they repeated these lines, they shook towards the altar the Lulabh
   which they held in their hands - as if with this token of the past to
   express the reality and cause of their praise, and to remind God of His
   promises. It is this moment which should be chiefly kept in view.

   The festive morning-service was followed by the offering of the special
   sacrifices for the day, with their drink-offerings, and by the Psalm
   for the day, which, on the last, the Great Day of the Feast,' was Psalm
   lxxxii. from verse 5. [4012] [4013] The Psalm was, of course, chanted,
   as always, to instrumental accompaniment, and at the end of each of its
   three sections the Priests blew a threefold blast, while the people
   bowed down in worship. In further symbolism of this Feast, as pointing
   to the ingathering of the heathen nations, the public services closed
   with a procession round the Altar by the Priests, who chanted O then,
   work now salvation, Jehovah! O Jehovah, send now prosperity.' [4014]
   But on the last, the Great Day of the Feast,' this procession of
   Priests made the circuit of the altar, not only once, but seven times,
   as if they were again compassing, but now with prayer, the Gentile
   Jericho which barred their possession of the promised land. Hence the
   seventh or last day of the Feast was also called that of the Great
   Hosannah.' As the people left the Temple, they saluted the altar with
   words of thanks, [4015] and on the last day of the Feast they shook off
   the leaves on the willow-branches round the altar, and beat their
   palm-branches to pieces. [4016] On the same afternoon the booths' were
   dismantled, and the Feast ended. [4017]

   We can have little difficulty in determining at what part of the
   services of the last, the Great Day of the Feast,' Jesus stood and
   cried, If any one thirst, let Him come unto Me and drink!' It must have
   been with special reference to the ceremony of the outpouring of the
   water, which, as we have seen, was considered the central part of the
   service. [4018] Moreover, all would understand that His words must
   refer to the Holy Spirit, since the rite was universally regarded as
   symbolical of His outpouring. The forthpouring of the water was
   immediately followed by the chanting of the Hallel. But after that
   there must have been a short pause to prepare for the festive
   sacrifices (the Musaph). It was then, immediately after the symbolic
   rite of water-pouring, immediately after the people had responded by
   repeating those lines from Psalm cxviii. - given thanks, and prayed
   that Jehovah would send salvation and prosperity, and had shaken their
   Lulabh towards the altar, thus praising with heart, and mouth, and
   hands,' and then silence had fallen upon them - that there rose, so
   loud as to be heard throughout the Temple, the Voice of Jesus. He
   interrupted not the services, for they had for the moment ceased: He
   interpreted, and He fulfilled them.

   Whether we realise it in connection with the deeply-stirring rites just
   concluded, and the song of praise that had scarcely died out of the
   air; or think of it as a vast step in advance in the history of
   Christ's Manifestation, the scene is equally wondrous. But yesterday
   they had been divided about Him, and the authorities had given
   directions to take Him; to-day He is not only in the Temple, but, at
   the close of the most solemn rites of the Feast, asserting, within the
   hearing of all, His claim to be regarded as the fulfilment of all, and
   the true Messiah! And yet there is neither harshness of command nor
   violence of threat in His proclamation. It is the King, meek, gentle,
   and loving; the Messiah, Who will not break the bruised reed, Who will
   not lift up His Voice in tone of anger, but speak in accents of loving,
   condescending compassion, Who now bids, whosoever thirsteth, come unto
   Him and drink. And so the words have to all time remained the call of
   Christ to all that thirst, whence- or what-soever their need and
   longing of soul may be. But, as we listen to these words as originally
   spoken, we feel how they mark that Christ's hour was indeed coming: the
   preparation past; the manifestation in the present, unmistakable,
   urgent, and loving; and the final conflict at hand.

   Of those who had heard Him, none but must have understood that, if the
   invitation were indeed real, and Christ the fulfilment of all, then the
   promise also had its deepest meaning, that he who believed on Him would
   not only receive the promised fulness of the Spirit, but give it forth
   to the fertilising of the barren waste around. It was, truly, the
   fulfilment of the Scripture-promise, not of one but of all: that in
   Messianic times the Nabhi, prophet,' literally the weller forth, viz.,
   of the Divine, should not be one or another select individual, but that
   He would pour out on all His handmaidens and servants of His Holy
   Spirit, and thus the moral wilderness of this world be changed into a
   fruitful garden. Indeed, this is expressly stated in the Targum which
   thus paraphrases Is. xliv. 3: Behold, as the waters are poured on arid
   ground and spread over the dry soil, so will I give the Spirit of My
   Holiness on they sons, and My blessing on thy children's children.'
   What was new to them was, that all this was treasured up in the Christ,
   that out of His fulness men might receive, and grace for grace. And yet
   even this was not quite new. For, was it not the fulfilment of that old
   prophetic cry: The Spirit of the Lord Jehovah is upon Me: therefore has
   He Messiahed (anointed) Me to preach good tidings unto the poor'? So
   then, it was nothing new, only the happy fulfilment of the old, when He
   thus spake of the Holy Spirit, which they who believed on Him should
   receive,' not then, but upon His Messianic exaltation.

   And so we scarcely wonder that many, on hearing Him, said, though not
   with that heart-conviction which would have led to self-surrender, that
   He was the Prophet promised of old, even the Christ, while others, by
   their side, regarding Him as a Galilean, the Son of Joseph, raised the
   ignorant objection that He could not be the Messiah, since the latter
   must be of the seed of David and come from Bethlehm. Nay, such was the
   anger of some against what they regarded a dangerous seducer of the
   poor people, that they would fain have laid violent hands on Him. But
   amidst all this, the strongest testimony to His Person and Mission
   remains to be told. It came, as so often, from a quarter whence it
   could least have been expected. Those Temple-officers, whom the
   authorities had commissioned to watch an opportunity for seizing Jesus,
   came back without having done their behest, and that, when, manifestly,
   the scene in the Temple might have offered the desired ground for His
   imprisonment. To the question of the Pharisees, they could only give
   this reply, which has ever since remained unquestionable fact of
   history, admitted alike by friend and foe: Never man so spake as this
   man.' [4019] For, as all spiritual longing and all upward tending, not
   only of men but even of systems, consciously or unconsciously tends
   towards Christ, [4020] so can we measure and judge all systems by this,
   which no sober student of history will gainsay, that no man or system
   ever so spake.

   It was not this which the Pharisees now gainsaid, but rather the
   obvious, and, we may add, logical, inference from it. The scene which
   followed is so thoroughly Jewish, that it alone would suffice to prove
   the Jewish, and hence Johannine, authorship of the Fourth Gospel. The
   harsh sneer: Are ye also led astray?' is succeeded by pointing to the
   authority of the learned and great, who with one accord were rejecting
   Jesus. But this people' - the country-people (Am ha-arez), the
   ignorant, unlettered rabble - are cursed.' Sufficient has been shown in
   previous parts of this book to explain alike the Pharisaic claim of
   authority and their almost unutterable contempt of the unlettered. So
   far did the latter go, that it would refuse, not only all family
   connection and friendly intercourse, [4021] but even the bread of
   charity, to the unlettered; [4022] nay, that, in theory at least, it
   would have regarded their murder as no sin, [4023] and even cut them
   off from the hope of the Resurrection. [4024] [4025] But is it not
   true, that, even in our days, this double sneer, rather than argument,
   of the Pharisees is the main reason of the disbelief of so many: Which
   of the learned believe on Him? but the ignorant multitude are led by
   superstition to ruin.

   There was one standing among the Temple-authorities, whom an uneasy
   conscience would not allow to remain quite silent. It was the
   Sanhedrist Nicodemus, still a night-disciple, even in brightest
   noon-tide. He could not hold his peace, and yet he dared not speak for
   Christ. So he made compromise of both by taking the part of, and
   speaking as, a righteous, rigid Sanhedrist. Does our Law judge
   (pronounce sentence upon) a man, except it first hear from himself and
   know what he doeth?' From the Rabbinic point of view, no sounder
   judicial saying could have been uttered. Yet such common-places impose
   not on any one, nor even serve any good purpose. It helped not the
   cause of Jesus, and it disguised not the advocacy of Nicodemus. We know
   what was thought of Galilee in the Rabbinic world. Art thou also of
   Galilee? Search and see, for out of Galilee ariseth no prophet.'

   And so ended this incident, which, to all concerned, might have been so
   fruitful of good. Once more Nicodemus was left alone, as every one who
   had dared and yet not dared for Christ is after all such bootless
   compromises; alone - with sore heart, stricken conscience, and a great
   longing. [4026]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [3987] Comp. Yoma 3 a, and often.

   [3988] Hence the benediction said at the beginning of every Feast is
   not only said on the first of that of Tabernacles, but also on the
   octave of it (Sukk. 48 a). The sacrifices for that occasion were quite
   different from those for Tabernacles;' the booths' were removed; and
   the peculiar rites of the Feast of Tabernacles no longer observed. This
   is distinctly stated in Sukk. iv. 1, and the diverging opinion of R.
   Jehudah on this and another point is formally rejected in Tos. Sukk.
   iii. 16. For the six points of difference between the Feast of
   Tabernacles and its Octave, see note at the end of ch. viii.

   [3989] Bishop Haneberg speaks of the anniversaries of the Martyrs as
   part-fulfilment of the typical meaning of that Feast.

   [3990] Also Lulabha and Luleybha.

   [3991] Targ. Onkelos, and Pseudo-Jon. and Jerus. on Lev. xxiii. 40;
   Jos. Ant. xiii. 13. 5.

   [3992] Vayy. R. 30, towards end, ed. Warsh., p. 47 a.

   [3993] Sukk. iv. 5.

   [3994] Jer. Sukk. iv. 3, p. 54 b.

   [3995] For a full discussion of this point, see p. 636, note 3.

   [3996] Rather more than two pints.

   [3997] Curiously, in that passage the spring of the river is designated
   by the word Moza.

   [3998] Comp. Neh. iii. 15.

   [3999] 2 Chron. xxxii. 30; 2 Kings xx. 20.

   [4000] St. John ix. 7.

   [4001] 1 Kings i. 33, 38.

   [4002] 1 Kings i. 9.

   [4003] ver. 41.

   [4004] Except on a Sabbath, and on the first day of the Feast. On these
   occasions it had been provided the day before.

   [4005] Tos. Sukk iii. 8.

   [4006] One of the gates that opened from the terrace' on the south side
   of the Temple.

   [4007] Jer. Sukk. iv. 6; Sukk. 44 a.

   [4008] On the other hand, R. Akiba maintained, that the water-pouring'
   was prescribed in the written Law.

   [4009] Sukk. iv. 9: Jos. Ant. xiii. 13. 5.

   [4010] Ps. cxviii. 25.

   [4011] ver. 25.

   [4012] Sukk. 55 a; Maimonides, Yad haChas. Hilkh. Temid. uMos. x. 11
   (vol. iii. p. 204 a).

   [4013] For the Psalms chanted on the otherdays of the Feast, and a
   detailed description of the Feast itself, see The Temple and its
   Services,' ch. xiv.

   [4014] Ps. cxviii. 25.

   [4015] Sukk. iv. 5.

   [4016] u. s. 1 and 6.

   [4017] u. s. 8.

   [4018] I must respectfully differ from Canon Westcott (ad loc.) when he
   regards it as a doubtful question whether or not the water-pouring' had
   taken place on the day when our Lord so pointed to the fulfilment of
   its symbolical meaning.

   [4019] Whether or not the last three words are spurious is, so far as
   the sense of the words is concerned, matter of comparative
   indifference.

   [4020] St. John vii. 17.

   [4021] Ps. 49 b.

   [4022] Baba B. 8 b.

   [4023] Pes. 49 d.

   [4024] Kethub. 111 b.

   [4025] For further details the reader is referred to Wagenseil's Sota,
   pp. 516-519.

   [4026] The reader will observe, that the narrative of the woman taken
   in adultery, as also the previous verse (St. John vii. 53-viii. 11)
   have been left out in this History - although with great reluctance. By
   this it is not intended to characterise that section as Apocryphal, nor
   indeed to pronounce any opinion as to the reality of some such
   occurrence. For, it contains much which we instinctively feel to be
   like the Master, both in what Christ is represented as saying and as
   doing. All that we reluctantly feel bound to maintain is, that the
   narrative in its present form did not exist in the Gospel of St. John,
   and, indeed, could not have existed. For a summary of the external
   evidence against the Johannine authorship of the passage, I would refer
   to Canon Westcott's Note, ad loc., in the Speaker's Commentary.' But
   there is also internal evidence, and, to my mind at least, most cogent,
   against its authenticity - at any rate, in its present form. From first
   to last it is utterly un-Jewish. Accordingly, unbiassed critics who are
   conversant either with Jewish legal procedure, or with the habits and
   views of the people at the time, would feel obliged to reject it, even
   if the external evidence had been as strong in its favour as it is for
   its rejection. Archdeacon Farrar has, indeed, devoted to the
   illustration of this narrative some of his most pictorial pages. But,
   with all his ability and eloquence, his references to Jewish law and
   observances are not such as to satisfy the requirements of criticism.
   To this general objection to their correctness I must add a protest
   against the views which he presents of the moral state of Jewish
   society at the time. On the other hand, from whatever point we view
   this narrative - the accusers, the witnesses, the public examination,
   the bringing of the woman to Jesus, or the punishment claimed - it
   presents insuperable difficulties. That a woman taken in the act of
   adultery should have been brought before Jesus (and apparently without
   the witnesses to her crime); that such an utterly un-Jewish, as well as
   illegal, procedure should have been that of the Scribes and Pharisees';
   that such a breach of law, and of what Judaism would regard as decency,
   should have been perpetrated to tempt' Him; or that the Scribes should
   have been so ignorant as to substitute stoning for strangulation, as
   the punishment of adultery; lastly, that this scene should have been
   enacted in the Temple, presents a veritable climax of impossibilities.
   I can only express surprise that Archdeacon Farrar should have
   suggested that the Feast of Tabernacles had grown into a kind of
   vintage-festival, which would often degenerate into acts of licence and
   immorality,' or that the lives of the religious leaders of Israel were
   often stained' with such sins. The first statement is quite ungrounded;
   and as for the second, I do not recall a single instance in which a
   charge of adultery is brought against a Rabbi of that period. The
   quotations in Sepp's Leben Jesu (vol. v. p. 183), which Archdeacon
   Farrar adduces, are not to cases in point, however much, from the
   Christian point of view, we may reprobate the conduct of the Rabbis
   there mentioned.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER VIII.
TEACHING IN THE TEMPLE ON THE OCTAVE OF THE FEAST OF TABERNACLES.

   (St. John viii. 12-59.)

   The startling teaching on the last, the Great Day of the Feast' was not
   the only one delivered at that season. The impression left on the mind
   is, that after silencing, as they thought, Nicodemus, the leaders of
   the Pharisees had dispersed. [4027] The addresses of Jesus which
   followed must, therefore, have been delivered, either later on that
   day, or, what on every account seems more likely, chiefly, or all, on
   the next day, [4028] which was the Octave of the Feast, when the Temple
   would be once more thronged by worshippers.

   On this occasion we find Christ, first in The Treasury,' [4029] and
   then [4030] in some unnamed part of the sacred building, in all
   probabilities one of the Porches,' Greater freedom could be here
   enjoyed, since these Porches,' which enclosed the Court of the
   Gentiles, did not form part of the Sanctuary in the stricter sense.
   Discussions might take place, in which not, as in the Treasury,' only
   the Pharisees,' [4031] but the people generally, might propound
   questions, answer, or assent. Again, as regards the requirements of the
   present narrative, since the Porches opened upon the Court, the Jews
   might there pick up stones to cast at Him (which would have been
   impossible in any part of the Sanctuary itself), while lastly, Jesus
   might easily pass out of the Temple in the crowd that moved through the
   Porches to the outer gates. [4032]

   But the narrative first transports us into the Treasury,' where the
   Pharisees' - or leaders - would alone venture to speak. It ought to be
   specially marked, that if they laid not hands on Jesus when He dared to
   teach in this sacred locality, and that such unwelcome doctrine, His
   immunity must be ascribed to the higher appointment of God: because His
   hour had not yet come.' [4033] An archæological question may here be
   raised as to the exact localisation of the Treasury,' whether it was
   the colonnade around the Court of the Women,' in which the receptacles
   for charitable contributions - the so-called Shopharoth, or trumpets' -
   were placed, [4034] or one of the two chambers' in which, respectively,
   secret gifts [4035] and votive offerings [4036] were deposited. [4037]
   [4038] The former seems the most likely. In any case, it would be
   within the Court of the Women,' the common meeting-place of the
   worshippers, and, as we may say, the most generally attended part of
   the Sanctuary. [4039] Here, in the hearing of the leaders of the
   people, took place the first Dialogue between Christ and the Pharisees.

   It opened with what probably was an allusion alike to one of the great
   ceremonies of the Feast of Tabernacles, to its symbolic meaning, and to
   an express Messianic expectation of the Rabbis. As the Mishnah states:
   On the first, [4040] or, as the Talmud would have it, [4041] on every
   night [4042] of the festive week, the Court of the Women' was
   brilliantly illuminated, and the night spent in the demonstrations
   already described. This was called the joy of the feast.' This festive
   joy,' of which the origin is obscure, was no doubt connected with the
   hope of earth's great harvest-joy in the conversion of the heathen
   world, and so pointed to the days of the Messiah.' In connection with
   this we mark, that the term light' was specially applied to the
   Messiah. In a very interesting passage of the Midrash [4043] we are
   told, that, while commonly windows were made wide within and narrow
   without, it was the opposite in the Temple of Solomon, because the
   light issuing from the Sanctuary was to lighten that which was without.
   This reminds us of the language of devout old Simeon in regard to the
   Messiah, [4044] as a light to lighten the Gentiles, and the glory of
   His people Israel.' The Midrash further explains, that, if the light in
   the Sanctuary was to be always burning before Jehovah, the reason was,
   not that He needed such light, but that He honoured Israel with this as
   a symbolic command. In Messianic times God would, in fulfilment of the
   prophetic meaning of this rite, kindle for them the Great Light,' and
   the nations of the world would point to them, who had lit the light for
   Him Who lightened the whole world. But even this is not all. The Rabbis
   speak of the original light in which God had wrapped Himself as in a
   garment, [4045] and which could not shine by day, because it would have
   dimmed the light of the sun. From this light that of the sun, moon, and
   stars had been kindled. [4046] It was now reserved under the throne of
   God for the Messiah, [4047] in Whose days it would shine forth once
   more. Lastly, we ought to refer to a passage in another Midrash, [4048]
   where, after a remarkable discussion on such names of the Messiah as
   the Lord our Righteousness,' the Branch,' the Comforter,' Shiloh,'
   Compassion,' His Birth is connected with the destruction, and His
   return with the restoration of the Temple. [4049] But in that very
   passage the Messiah is also specially designated as the Enlightener,'
   the words: [4050] the light dwelleth with Him,' being applied to Him.

   What has just been stated shows, that the Messianic hope of the aged
   Simeon [4051] most truly expressed the Messianic thoughts of the time.
   It also proves, that the Pharisees could not have mistaken the
   Messianic meaning in the words of Jesus, in their reference to the past
   festivity: I am the Light of the world.' This circumstance is itself
   evidential as regards this Discourse of Christ, the truth of this
   narrative, and even the Jewish authorship of the Fourth Gospel. But,
   indeed, the whole Address, the argumentation with the Pharisees which
   follows, as well as the subsequent Discourse to, and argumentation
   with, the Jews, are peculiarly Jewish in their form of reasoning.
   Substantially, these Discourses are a continuation of those previously
   delivered at this Feast. But they carry the argument one important step
   both backwards and forwards. The situation had now become quite clear,
   and neither party cared to conceal it. What Jesus had gradually
   communicated to the disciples, who were so unwilling to receive it, had
   now become an acknowledged fact. It was no longer a secret that the
   leaders of Israel and Jerusalem were compassing the Death of Jesus.
   This underlies all His Words. And He sought to turn them from their
   purpose, not by appealing to their pity nor to any lower motive, but by
   claiming as His right that, for which they would condemn Him. He was
   the Sent of God, the Messiah; although, to know Him and His Mission, it
   needed moral kinship with Him that had sent Him. But this led to the
   very root of the matter. It needed moral kinship with God: did Israel,
   as such, possess it? They did not; nay, no man possessed it, till given
   him of God. This was not exactly new in these Discourses of Christ, but
   it was now far more clearly stated and developed, and in that sense
   new.

   We also are too apt to overlook this teaching of Christ - perhaps have
   overlooked it. It is concerning the corruption of our whole nature by
   sin, and hence the need of God-teaching, if we are to receive the
   Christ, or understand His doctrine. That which is born of the flesh is
   flesh; that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit; wherefore, marvel
   not that I said, Ye must be born again.' That had been Christ's initial
   teaching to Nicodemus, and it became, with growing emphasis, His final
   teaching to the teachers of Israel. It is not St. Paul who first sets
   forth the doctrine of our entire moral ruin: he had learned it from the
   Christ. It forms the very basis of Christianity; it is the ultimate
   reason of the need of a Redeemer, and the rationale of the work which
   Christ came to do. The Priesthood and the Sacrificial Work of Christ,
   as well as the higher aspect of His Prophetic Office, and the true
   meaning of His Kingship, as not of this world, are based upon it. Very
   markedly, it constitutes the starting-point in the fundamental
   divergence between the leaders of the Synagogue and Christ - we might
   say, to all time between Christians and non-Christians. The teachers of
   Israel knew not, nor believed in the total corruption of man - Jew as
   well as Gentile - and, therefore, felt not the need of a Saviour. They
   could not understand it - how Except a man' - at least a Jew - were
   born again,' and, from above,' he could not enter, nor even see, the
   Kingdom of God. They understood not their own Bible: the story of the
   Fall - not Moses and the Prophets; and how could they understand
   Christ? they believed not them, and how could they believe Him? And
   yet, from this point of view, but only from this, does all seem clear:
   the Incarnation, the History of the Temptation and Victory in the
   Wilderness, and even the Cross. Only he who has, in some measure,
   himself felt the agony of the first garden, can understand that of the
   second garden. Had they understood, by that personal experience which
   we must all have of it, the Proto-Evangel of the great contest, and of
   the great conquest by suffering, they would have followed its lines to
   their final goal in the Christ as the fulfilment of all. And so, here
   also, were the words of Christ true, that it needed heavenly teaching,
   and kinship to the Divine, to understand His doctrine.

   This underlies, and is the main object of these Discourses of Christ.
   As a corollary He would teach, that Satan was not a merely malicious,
   impish being, working outward destruction, but that there was a moral
   power of evil which held us all - not the Gentile world only, but even
   the most favoured, learned, and exalted among the Jews. Of this power
   Satan was the concentration and impersonation; the prince of the power
   of darkness.' This opens up the reasoning of Christ, alike as expressed
   and implied. He presented Himself to them as the Messiah, and hence as
   the Light of the World. It resulted, that only in following Him would a
   man not walk in the darkness,' [4052] but have the light - and that, be
   it marked, not the light of knowledge, but of life. [4053] On the other
   hand, it also followed, that all, who were not within this light, were
   in darkness and in death.

   It was an appeal to the moral in His hearers. The Pharisees sought to
   turn it aside by an appeal to the external and visible. They asked for
   some witness, or palpable evidence, of what they called His testimony
   about Himself, [4054] well knowing that such could only be through some
   external, visible, miraculous manifestation, just as they had formerly
   asked for a sign from heaven. The Bible, and especially the Evangelic
   history, is full of what men ordinarily, and often thoughtlessly, call
   the miraculous. But, in this case, the miraculous would have become the
   magical, which it never is. If Christ had yielded to their appeal, and
   transferred the question from the moral to the coarsely external
   sphere, He would have ceased to be the Messiah of the Incarnation,
   Temptation, and Cross, the Messiah-Saviour. It would have been to
   un-Messiah the Messiah of the Gospel, for it was only, in another form,
   a repetition of the Temptation. A miracle or sign would at that moment
   have been a moral anachronism - as much as any miracle would be in our
   days, [4055] when the Christ makes His appeal to the moral, and is met
   by a demand for the external and material evidence of His Witness.

   The interruption of the Pharisees [4056] was thoroughly Jewish, and so
   was their objection. It had to be met, and that in the Jewish form
   [4057] in which it had been raised, while the Christ must at the same
   time continue His former teaching to them concerning God and their own
   distance from Him. Their objection had proceeded on this fundamental
   judicial principle - A person is not accredited about himself.' [4058]
   Harsh and unjust as this principle sometimes was, [4059] it evidently
   applied only in judicial cases, and hence implied that these Pharisees
   sat in judgment on Him as one suspected, and charged with guilt. The
   reply of Jesus was plain. Even if His testimony about Himself were
   unsupported, it would still be true, and He was competent to bear it,
   for He knew, as a matter of fact, whence He came and whither He went -
   His own part in this Mission, and its goal, as well as God's - whereas
   they knew [4060] not either. [4061] But, more than this: their demand
   for a witness had proceeded on the assumption of their being the
   judges, and He the panel - a relation which only arose from their
   judging after the flesh. Spiritual judgment upon that which was within
   belonged only to Him, that searcheth all secrets. Christ, while on
   earth, judged no man; and, even if He did so, it must be remembered
   that He did it not alone, but with, and as the Representative of, the
   Father. Hence, such judgment would be true. [4062] But, as for their
   main charge, was it either true, or good in law? In accordance with the
   Law of God, there were two witnesses to the fact of His Mission: His
   own, and the frequently-shown attestation of His Father. And, if it
   were objected that a man could not bear witness in his own cause, the
   same Rabbinic canon laid it down, that this only applied if his
   testimony stood alone. But if it were corroborated (even in a matter of
   greatest delicacy), [4063] although by only one male or female slave -
   who ordinarily were unfit for testimony - it would be credited.

   The reasoning of Christ, without for a moment quitting the higher
   ground of His teaching, was quite unanswerable from the Jewish
   standpoint. The Pharisees felt it, and, though well knowing to Whom He
   referred, tried to evade it by the sneer - where (not Who) His Father
   was? This gave occasion for Christ to return to the main subject of His
   Address, that the reason of their ignorance of Him was, that they knew
   not the Father, and, in turn, that only acknowledgment of Him would
   bring true knowledge of the Father. [4064]

   Such words would only ripen in the hearts of such men the murderous
   resolve against Jesus. Yet, not till His, not their, hour had come!
   Presently, we find Him again, now in one of the Porches - probably that
   of Solomon - teaching, this time, the Jews.' We imagine they were
   chiefly, if not all, Judæans - perhaps Jerusalemites, aware of the
   murderous intent of their leaders - not His own Galileans, whom He
   addressed. It was in continuation of what had gone before - alike of
   what He had said to them and of what they felt towards Him. The words
   are intensely sad - Christ's farewell to His rebellious people, His
   tear-words over lost Israel; abrupt also, as if they were torn
   sentences, or, else, headings for special discourses: I go My way' - Ye
   shall seek Me, and in your sin [4065] shall ye die' - Whither I go, ye
   cannot come!' And is it not all most true? These many centuries has
   Israel sought its Christ, and perished in its great sin of rejecting
   Him; and whither Christ and His kingdom tended, the Synagogue and
   Judaism never came. They thought that He spoke of His dying, and not,
   as He did, of that which came after it. But, how could His dying
   establish such separation between them? This was the next question
   which rose in their minds. [4066] Would there be anything so peculiar
   about His dying, or, did His expression about going indicate a purpose
   of taking away His Own life? [4067]

   It was this misunderstanding which Jesus briefly but emphatically
   corrected by telling them, that the ground of their separation was the
   difference of their nature: they were from beneath, He from above; they
   of this world, He not of this world. Hence they could not come where He
   would be, since they must die in their sin, as He had told them - if ye
   believe not that I am.' [4068]

   The words were intentionally mysteriously spoken, as to a Jewish
   audience. Believe not that Thou art! But Who art Thou?' Whether or not
   the words were spoken in scorn, their question condemned themselves. In
   His broken sentence, Jesus had tried them - to see how they would
   complete it. Then it was so! All this time they had not yet learned Who
   He was; had not even a conviction on that point, either for or against
   Him, but were ready to be swayed by their leaders! Who I am?' - am I
   not telling you it even from the beginning; has My testimony by word or
   deed ever swerved on this point? I am what all along, from the
   beginning, I tell you. [4069] Then, putting aside this interruption, He
   resumed His argument. [4070] Many other things had He to say and to
   judge concerning them, besides the bitter truth of their perishing if
   they believed not that it was He - but He that had sent Him was true,
   and He must ever speak into the world the message which He had
   received. When Christ referred to it as that which He heard from Him,'
   [4071] He evidently wished thereby to emphasise the fact of His Mission
   from God, as constituting His claim on their obedience of faith. But it
   was this very point which, even at that moment, they were not
   understanding. [4072] And they would only learn it, not by His Words,
   but by the event, when they had lifted Him up,' as they thought, to the
   Cross, but really on the way to His Glory. [4073] [4074] Then would
   they perceive the meaning of the designation He had given of Himself,
   and the claim founded on it: [4075] Then shall ye perceive that I am.'
   Meantime: And of Myself do I nothing, but as the [4076] Father taught
   Me, these things do I speak. And He that sent Me is with Me. He [4077]
   hath not left Me alone, because what pleases Him I do always.'

   If the Jews failed to understand the expression lifting up,' which
   might mean His Exaltation, though it did mean, in the first place, His
   Cross, there was that in His Appeal to His Words and Deeds as bearing
   witness to His Mission and to the Divine Help and Presence in it, which
   by its sincerity, earnestness, and reality, found its way to the hearts
   of many. Instinctively they felt and believed that His Mission must be
   Divine. Whether or not this found articulate expression, Jesus now
   addressed Himself to those who thus far - at least for the moment -
   believed on Him. They were at the crisis of their spiritual history,
   and He must press home on them what He had sought to teach at the
   first. By nature far from Him, they were bondsmen. Only if they abode
   in His Word would they know the truth, and the truth would make them
   free. The result of this knowledge would be moral, and hence that
   knowledge consisted not in merely believing on Him, but in making His
   Word and teaching their dwelling - abiding in it. [4078] But it was
   this very moral application which they resisted. In this also Jesus had
   used their own forms of thinking and teaching, only in a much higher
   sense. For their own tradition had it, that he only was free who
   laboured in the study of the Law. [4079] Yet the liberty of which He
   spoke came not through study of the Law, [4080] but from abiding in the
   Word of Jesus. But it was this very thing which they resisted. And so
   they ignored the spiritual, and fell back upon the national,
   application of the words of Christ. As this is once more evidential of
   the Jewish authorship of this Gospel, so also the characteristically
   Jewish boast, that as the children of Abraham they had never been, and
   never could be, in real servitude. It would take too long to enumerate
   all the benefits supposed to be derived from descent from Abraham.
   Suffice here the almost fundamental principle: All Israel are the
   children of Kings,' [4081] and its application even to common life,
   that as the children of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, not even Solomon's
   feast could be too good for them.' [4082]

   Not so, however, would the Lord allow them to pass it by. He pointed
   them to another servitude which they knew not, that of sin, [4083] and,
   entering at the same time also on their own ideas, He told them that
   continuance in this servitude would also lead to national bondage and
   rejection: For the servant abideth not in the house for ever.' [4084]
   On the other hand, the Son abode there for ever; whom He made free by
   adoption into His family, they would be free in reality and
   essentially. [4085] [4086] Then for their very dulness, He would turn
   to their favourite conceit of being Abraham's seed. There was, indeed,
   an obvious sense in which, by their natural descent, they were such.
   But there was a moral descent - and that alone was of real value.
   Another, and to them wholly new, and heavenly teaching this, which our
   Lord presently applied in a manner they could neither misunderstand nor
   gainsay, while He at the same time connected it with the general drift
   of His teaching. Abraham's seed? But they entertained purposes of
   murder, and that, because the Word of Christ had not free course, made
   not way in them. [4087] His Word was what He had seen with (before) the
   Father, [4088] not heard - for His presence was there Eternal. Their
   deeds were what they had heard from their father [4089] - the word
   seen' in our common text depending on a wrong reading. And thus He
   showed them - in answer to their interpellation - that their father
   could not have been Abraham, so far as spiritual descent was concerned.
   [4090] They had now a glimpse of His meaning, but only to misapply it,
   according to their Jewish prejudice. Their spiritual descent, they
   urged, must be of God, since their descent from Abraham was legitimate.
   [4091] But the Lord dispelled even this conceit by showing, that if
   theirs were spiritual descent from God, then would they not reject His
   Message, nor seek to kill Him, but recognise and love him. [4092]

   But whence this misunderstanding of His speech? [4093] [4094] Because
   they are morally incapable of hearing it - and this because of the
   sinfulness of their nature: an element which Judaism had never taken
   into account. And so, with infinite Wisdom, Christ once more brought
   back His Discourse to what He would teach them concerning man's need,
   whether he be Jew or Gentile, of a Saviour and of renewing by the Holy
   Ghost. If the Jews were morally unable to hear His Word and cherished
   murderous designs, it was because, morally speaking, their descent was
   of the Devil. Very differently from Jewish ideas [4095] did He speak
   concerning the moral evilof Satan, as both a murderer and a liar - a
   murderer from the beginning of the history of our race, and one who
   stood not in the truth, because truth is not in him.' Hence whenever he
   speaketh a lie' - whether to our first parents, or now concerning the
   Christ - he speaketh from out his own (things), for he (Satan) is a
   liar, and the father of such an one (who telleth or believeth lies).'
   [4096] Which of them could convict Him of sin? If therefore He spake
   truth, [4097] and they believed Him not, it was because they were not
   of God, but, as He had shown them, of their father, the Devil.

   The argument was unanswerable, and there seemed only one way to turn it
   aside - a Jewish Tu quoque, an adaptation of the Physician, heal
   thyself:' Do we not say rightly, that Thou art a Samaritan, and hast a
   demon?' It is strange that the first clause of this reproach should
   have been so misunderstood and yet its direct explanation lies on the
   surface. We have only to translate it into the language which the Jews
   had used. By no strain of ingenuity is it possible to account for the
   designation Samaritan,' as given by the Jews to Jesus, if it is
   regarded as referring to nationality. Even at the very Feast they had
   made it an objection to His Messianic claims, that He was (as they
   supposed) a Galilean. [4098] Nor had He come to Jerusalem from Samaria;
   [4099] nor could He be so called (as Commentators suggest) because He
   was a foe' to Israel, or a breaker of the Law,' or unfit to bear
   witness' [4100] - for neither of these circumstances would have led the
   Jews to designate Him by the term Samaritan.' But, in the language
   which they spoke, what is rendered into Greek by Samaritan,' would have
   been either Kuthi ({hebrew}), which, while literally meaning a
   Samaritan, [4101] is almost as often used in the sense of heretic,' or
   else Shomroni ({hebrew}). The latter word deserves special attention.
   [4102] Literally, it also means, Samaritan;' but, the name Shomron
   (perhaps from its connection with Samaria), is also sometimes used as
   the equivalent of Ashmedai, the Prince of the demons. [4103] [4104]
   According to the Kabbalists, Shomron was the father of Ashmedai, and
   hence the same as Sammael, or Satan. That this was a wide-spread Jewish
   belief, appears from the circumstance that in the Koran (which, in such
   matters, would reproduce popular Jewish tradition), Israel is said to
   have been seduced into idolatry by Shomron, [4105] while, in Jewish
   tradition, this is attributed to Sammael. [4106]   If, therefore, the
   term applied by the Jews to Jesus was Shomroni - and not Kuthi,
   heretic' - it would literally mean, Child of the Devil.' [4107]

   This would also explain why Christ only replied to the charge of having
   a demon, since the two charges meant substantially the same: Thou art a
   child of the devil and hast a demon.' In wondrous patience and mercy He
   almost passed it by, dwelling rather, for their teaching, on the fact
   that, while they dishonoured Him, He honoured His Father. He heeded not
   their charges. His concern was the glory of His Father; the vindication
   of His own honour would be brought about by the Father - though, alas!
   in judgment on those who were casting such dishonour on the Sent of
   God. [4108] Then, as if lingering in deep compassion on the terrible
   issue, He once more pressed home the great subject of His Discourse,
   that only if a man keep' - both have regard to, and observe - His
   Word,' he shall not gaze at death [intently behold it] [4109] unto
   eternity' - for ever shall he not come within close and terrible gaze
   of what is really death, of what became such to Adam in the hour of his
   Fall.

   It was, as repeatedly observed, this death as the consequence of the
   Fall, of which the Jews knew nothing. And so they once more
   misunderstood it as of physical death, [4110] and, since Abraham and
   the prophets had died, regarded Christ as setting up a claim higher
   than theirs. [4111] The Discourse had contained all that He had wished
   to bring before them, and their objections were degenerating into
   wrangling. It was time to break it off by a general application. The
   question, He added, was not of what He said, but of what God said of
   Him - that God, Whom they claimed as theirs, and yet knew not, but Whom
   He knew, and Whose Word He kept.' [4112] But, as for Abraham - he had
   exulted' in the thought of the coming day of the Christ, and, seeing
   its glory, he was glad. Even Jewish tradition could scarcely gainsay
   this, since there were two parties in the Synagogue, of which one
   believed that, when that horror of great darkness fell on him, [4113]
   Abraham had, in vision, been shown not only this, but the coming world
   - and not only all events in the present age,' but also those in
   Messianic times. [4114] [4115] And now, theirs was not
   misunderstanding, but wilful misinterpretation. He had spoken of
   Abraham seeing His day; they took it of His seeing Abraham's day, and
   challenged its possibility. Whether or not they intended thus to elicit
   an avowal of His claim to eternal duration, and hence to Divinity, it
   was not time any longer to forbear the full statement, and, with Divine
   emphasis, He spake the words which could not be mistaken: Verily,
   verily, I say unto you, before Abraham was, I AM.'

   It was as if they had only waited for this. Furiously they rushed from
   the Porch into the Court of the Gentiles - with symbolic significance,
   even in this - to pick up stones, and to cast them at Him. But, once
   more, His hour had not yet come, and their fury proved impotent. Hiding
   Himself for the moment, as might so easily be done, in one of the many
   chambers, passages, or gateways of the Temple, He presently passed out.

   It had been the first plain disclosure and avowal of His Divinity, and
   it was in the midst of His enemies,' and when most contempt was cast
   upon Him. Presently would that avowal be renewed both in Word and by
   Deed; for the end' of mercy and judgment had not yet come, but was
   drawing terribly nigh.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [4027] This, although St. John vii. 53 must be rejected as spurious.
   But the whole context seems to imply, that for the present the auditory
   of Jesus had dispersed.

   [4028] It is, however, not unlikely that the first address (vv. 12-19)
   may have been delivered on the afternoon of the Last Day of the Feast,'
   when the cessation of preparations for the Temple-illumination may have
   given the outward occasion for the words: I am the light of the World.'
   The palin of vv. 12 and 21 seems in each case to indicate a fresh
   period of time. Besides, we can scarcely suppose that all from vii. 37
   to viii. 59 had taken place the same day. For this and other arguments
   on the point, see Lücke, vol. ii. pp. 279-281.

   [4029] St. John viii. 20.

   [4030] ver. 21.

   [4031] ver. 13.

   [4032] The last clauses of ver. 59, going through the midst of them
   went His way, and so passed by,' must be omitted as spurious.

   [4033] ver. 20.

   [4034] Sheqal. vi. 5.

   [4035] The so-called chamber of the silent' (Chashaim), Sheqal. v. 6.

   [4036] The chamber of the vessels' (Kelim). It was probably over, or in
   this chamber that Agrippi hung up the golden memorial-chain of his
   captivity (Jos. Antiq. xix. 6. 1).

   [4037] Sheqal v. 6.

   [4038] Comp. generally The Temple and its Services,' pp. 26, 27.

   [4039] The Court of the Women' (gunaikons), Jos. Jew. War v. 5. 3;
   comp. also v. 5. 2), so called, because women could not penetrate
   further. It was the real Court of the Sanctuary. Here Jeremiah also
   taught (xix. 14; xxvi. 2). But it is not correct to state (Westcott),
   that the Council Chamber of the Sanhedrin (Gazith) was between the
   Court of the Women and the inner court.' It was in the south-eastern
   angle of the Court of the Priests - and hence at a considerable
   distance from the Court of the Women. But, not to speak of the
   circumstance that the Sanhedrin no longer met in that Chamber - even if
   it had been nearer, Christ's teaching in the Treasury could not (at any
   period) have been within earshot of the Sanhedrin,' since it would not
   sit on that day.

   [4040] Sukk. v. 2.

   [4041] Jer. Sukk. 55 b; Sukk. 53 a.

   [4042] Although Rabbi Joshua tells (in the Talmud) that during all the
   nights of the festive week they did not taste sleep,' this seems
   scarcely credible, and the statement of the Mishnah is the more
   rational. Maimonides, however, adopts the view of the Talmud (Hilch.
   Lul. viii. 12).

   [4043] Bemidb. R. 15, ed. Warsh. p. 62 a, b.

   [4044] St. Luke ii. 32.

   [4045] Ber. R. 3.

   [4046] Bemidb. R. 15.

   [4047] Yalk. on Is. 1x.

   [4048] On Lam. i. 16, ed. Warsh. p. 64 a, b.

   [4049] The passage is one of the most remarkable, as regards the
   Messianic views of the Rabbis. See Appendix IX.

   [4050] In Dan. ii. 22.

   [4051] St. Luke ii. 32.

   [4052] Mark here the definite article.

   [4053] St. John viii. 12.

   [4054] ver. 13.

   [4055] It is substantially the same evidence which is demanded by the
   negative physicists of our days. Nor can I imagine a more thorough
   misunderstanding of the character and teaching of Christianity than,
   for example, the proposal to test the efficacy of prayer, by asking for
   the recovery of those in a hospital ward! This would represent
   heathenism, not Christianity.

   [4056] St. John viii. 13.

   [4057] We mark here again the evidence of the Jewish authorship of the
   Fourth Gospel.

   [4058] Kethub. ii. 9.

   [4059] Thus the testimony of a man, that during the heathen occupancy
   of Jerusalem his wife had never left him, was not allowed, and the
   husband forbidden his wife (Kethub. ii. 9).

   [4060] Not, as in the A.V., tell.'

   [4061] St. John viii. 14.

   [4062] vv. 15, 16.

   [4063] Kethub. ii. 9. Such solitary testimony only when favourable, not
   when adverse. On the law of testimony generally, comp. Saalschütz, Mos.
   Recht, pp. 604, 605.

   [4064] St. John viii. 19.

   [4065] Not sins,' as in the A.V.

   [4066] St. John viii. 22.

   [4067] Generally this is understood as referring to the supposed Jewish
   belief, that suicides occupied the lowest place in Gehenna. But a
   glance at the context must convince that the Jews could not have
   understood Christ as meaning, that He would be separated from them by
   being sent to the lowest Gehenna. Besides, this supposed punishment of
   suicides is only derived from a rhetorical passage in Josephus (Jew.
   War iii. 8. 5), but unsupported by any Rabbinic statements. The
   Rabbinic definition - or rather limitation - of what constitutes
   suicide is remarkable. Thus, neither Saul, nor Ahitophel, nor Zimri,
   are regarded as suicides, because they did it to avoid falling into the
   hands of their enemies. For premeditated, real suicide the punishment
   is left with God. Some difference is to be made in the burial of such,
   yet not such as to put the survivors to shame.

   [4068] vv. 23, 24.

   [4069] It would be impossible here to enter into a critical analysis or
   vindication of the rendering of this much controverted passage, adopted
   in the text. The method followed has been to retranslate literally into
   Hebrew: {hebrew} This might be rendered either, To begin with - He that
   I also tell you;' or, from the beginning He that I also tell you.' I
   prefer the latter, and its meaning seems substantially that of our A.V.

   [4070] vv. 25, 26.

   [4071] ver. 26.

   [4072] ver. 27.

   [4073] As Canon Westcott rightly points out (St. John xii. 32), the
   term lifting up' includes both the death and the glory. If we ask
   ourselves what corresponding Hebrew word, including the sensus malus as
   well as the sensus bonus would have been used, the verb Nasa ({hebrew})
   naturally occurs (comp. Gen xl. 19 with ver. 13). For we suppose, that
   the word used by Christ at this early part of His Ministry could not
   have necessarily involved a prediction of His Crucifixion, and that
   they who heard it rather imagined it to refer to His Exaltation. There
   is a curiously illustrative passage here (in Pesiqta R. 10), when a
   king, having given orders that the head of his son should be lifted up'
   ({hebrew}), that it should be hanged up ({hebrew}), is exhorted by the
   tutor to spare what was his moneginos' (only begotten). On the king's
   replying that he was bound by the orders he had given, the tutor
   answers by pointing out that the verb Nasa means lifting up in the
   sense of exalting, as well as of executing. But, besides the verb Nasa,
   there is also the verb Zeqaph ({hebrew}), which in the Aramaic and in
   the Syriac is used both for lifting up and for hanging - specifically
   for crucifying; and, lastly, the verb Tela ({hebrew} or {hebrew}),
   which means in the first place to lift up, and secondarily to hang or
   crucify (see Levy, Targum, Wörterb. ii. p. 539 a and b). It this latter
   verb was used, then the Jewish expression Taluy, which is still
   opprobriously given to Jesus, would after all represent the original
   designation by which He described His own death as the lifted-up One.'

   [4074] ver. 28.

   [4075] ver. 28 (comp. ver. 24).

   [4076] Not my,' as in A.V.

   [4077] A new sentence; and He,' not the Father,' as in the A.V.

   [4078] vv. 30-32.

   [4079] Ab. Baraitha vi. 2, p. 23 b; Erub. 54 a, line 13 from bottom.

   [4080] With reference to Exod. xxxii. 16, a play being made on the word
   Charuth (graven') which is interpreted Cheyruth (liberty'). The passage
   quoted by Wünsche (Baba Mets. 85 b) is not applicable.

   [4081] Shabb. 67 a; 128 a.

   [4082] Baba Mets. vii. 1.

   [4083] St. John viii. 34.

   [4084] Here there should be a full stop, and not as in the A.V.

   [4085] ver. 35.

   [4086] ntos. Comp. Westcott ad loc.

   [4087] So Canon Westcott aptly renders it.

   [4088] Not My Father,' as in the A.V. These little changes are most
   important, as we remember that the hearers would so far understand and
   could have sympathised, had the truth been in them.

   [4089] According to the proper reading, the rendering must be from your
   father,' not with your father,' as in the A.V.

   [4090] vv. 37-40.

   [4091] ver. 41.

   [4092] ver. 42.

   [4093] The word here is lali.

   [4094] vv. 43-47.

   [4095] See Book II. ch. v.

   [4096] I cannot here regard Canon Westcott's rendering, which is placed
   in the margin of the Revised Version, as satisfactory.

   [4097] In the text without the article.

   [4098] vii. 52.

   [4099] St. Luke ix. 53.

   [4100] The passage quoted by Schöttgen (Yebam. 47 a) is inapplicable,
   as it really refers to a non-Israelite. More apt, but also unsuitable,
   is Sot. 22 a, quoted by Wetstein.

   [4101] from Kuth or Kutha; comp. 2 Kings xvii. 24, 30.

   [4102] Comp. Kohut, Jüd. Angelol. p. 95.

   [4103] Ber. R. 36, ed.  Warsh. p. 65 b, line 5 from bottom; Yalkut on
   Job xxi. vol. ii. p. 150 b line 16 from bottom.

   [4104] See the Appendix on Jewish-Angelology and Demonology.

   [4105] L'Alcoran trad.par le Sieur du Ryer, p. 247.

   [4106] Pirqé de R. Eliez. 45 ed. Lemb. p. 59 b, line 10 from top.

   [4107] I need scarcely point out how strongly evidential this is of the
   Jewish authorship of the Fourth Gospel.

   [4108] St. John viii. 50.

   [4109] The word is that peculiar and remarkable one, thereo, to gaze
   earnestly and intently, to which I have already called attention (see
   vol. i. p. 692).

   [4110] He spoke of seeing,' they of tasting' death (vv. 51, 52). The
   word {hebrew} taste,' is used in precisely the same manner by the
   Rabbis. Thus, in the Jer. Targum on Deut. xxxii. 1. In Ber. R. 9, we
   are told, that it was originally destined that the first man should not
   taste death. Again, Elijah did not taste the taste of death' (Ber. R.
   21). And, tropically, in such a passage as this: If any one would taste
   a taste (here: have a foretaste) of death, let him keep his shoes on
   while he goes to sleep' (Yom. 78 l). It is also used of sleep, as: All
   the days of the joy of the house of drawing [Feast of Tabernacles] we
   did not taste the taste of sleep' (Succ. 53 a). It is needless to add
   other quotations.

   [4111] vv. 52, 53.

   [4112] On the expression keep (teren) His work,' Bengel beautifully
   observes: doctrinam Jesu, credendo; promissa, sperando; facienda
   obediendo.

   [4113] Gen. xv. 17.

   [4114] Ber. R. 44, ed. Warsh. p. 81 b, lines 8, 7, 6 from bottom.

   [4115] In the Targum Jerusalem on Gen. xv. also it seems implied that
   Abraham saw in vision all that would befall his children in the future,
   and also Gehenna and its torments. So far as I can gather, only the
   latter, not the former, seems implied in the Targ. Pseudo-Jonathan.
   Note on the differences between the Feast of Tabernacles and that of
   its Octave (see p. 156, note 1). The six points of difference which
   mark the Octave as a separate feast are indicated by the memorial words
   and letters {hebrew}, and are as follows: (1) During the seven days of
   Tabernacles the Priests of all the courses' officiated, while on the
   Octave the sacrificial services were appointed, as usually, by lot
   ({hebrew}). (2) The benediction at the beginning of a feast was spoken
   again at the Octave ({hebrew}). (3) The Octave was designated in
   prayer, and by special ordinances, as a separate feast ({hebrew}). (4)
   Difference in the sacrifices ({hebrew}). (5) Difference in the Psalms -
   on the Octave (Soph. xix. 2) probably Ps. xii. ({hebrew}). (6)
   According to 1 Kings viii. 66, difference as to the blessing
   ({hebrew}).
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER IX.
THE HEALING OF THE MAN BORN BLIND.

   (St. John ix.)

   After the scene in the Temple described in the last chapter, and
   Christ's consequent withdrawal from His enemies, we can scarcely
   suppose any other great event to have taken place on that day within or
   near the precincts of the Sanctuary. And yet, from the close connection
   of the narratives, we are led to infer that no long interval of time
   can have elapsed before the healing of the man born blind. [4116]
   Probably it happened the day after the events just recorded. We know
   that it was a Sabbath, [4117] and this fresh mark of time, as well as
   the multiplicity of things done, and the whole style of the narrative,
   confirm our belief that it was not on the evening of the day when He
   had spoken to them first in the Treasury,' and then in the Porch.

   On two other points there is strong presumption, though we cannot offer
   actual proof. Remembering, that the entrance to the Temple or its
   Courts was then - as that of churches is on the Continent - the chosen
   spot for those who, as objects of pity, solicited charity; [4118]
   remembering, also, how rapidly the healing of the blind man became
   known, and how soon both his parents and the healed man himself
   appeared before the Pharisees - presumably, in the Temple; lastly, how
   readily the Saviour knew where again to find him [4119] - we can
   scarcely doubt that the miracle took place at the entering to the
   Temple, or on the Temple-Mount. Secondly, both the Work, and especially
   the Words of Christ, seem in such close connection with what had
   preceded, that we can scarcely be mistaken in regarding them as
   intended to form a continuation of it.

   It is not difficult to realise the scene, nor to understand the remarks
   of all who had part in it. It was the Sabbath - the day after the
   Octave of the Feast, and Christ with His disciples was passing -
   presumably when going into the Temple, where this blind beggar was wont
   to sit, probably soliciting alms, perhaps in some such terms as these,
   which were common at the time: Gain merit by me;' or, O tenderhearted,
   by me gain merit, to thine own benefit.' But on the Sabbath he would,
   of course, neither ask nor receive alms, though his presence in the
   wonted place would secure wider notice and perhaps lead to many private
   gifts. Indeed, the blind were regarded as specially entitled to
   charity; [4120] and the Jerusalem Talmud [4121] relates some touching
   instances of the delicacy displayed towards them. As the Master and His
   disciples passed the blind beggar, Jesus saw' him, with that look which
   they who followed Him knew to be full of meaning. Yet, so thoroughly
   Judaised were they by their late contact with the Pharisees, that no
   thought of possible mercy came to them, only a truly and
   characteristically Jewish question, addressed to Him expressly, and as
   Rabbi:' [4122] through whose guilt this blindness had befallen him -
   through his own, or that of his parents.

   For, thoroughly Jewish the question was. Many instances could be
   adduced, in which one or another sin is said to have been punished by
   some immediate stroke, disease, or even by death; and we constantly
   find Rabbis, when meeting such unfortunate persons, asking them, how or
   by what sin this had come to them. But, as this man was blind from his
   birth,' the possibility of some actual sin before birth would suggest
   itself, at least as a speculative question, since the evil impulse'
   (Yetser haRa), might even then be called into activity. [4123] At the
   same time, both the Talmud and the later charge of the Pharisees, In
   sins wast thou born altogether,' imply that in such cases the
   alternative explanation would be considered, that the blindness might
   be caused by the sin of his parents. [4124] It was a common Jewish
   view, that the merits or demerits of the parents would appear in the
   children. In fact, up to thirteen years of age a child was considered,
   as it were, part of his father, and as suffering for his guilt. [4125]
   More than that, the thoughts of a mother might affect the moral state
   of her unborn offspring, and the terrible apostasy of one of the
   greatest Rabbis had, in popular belief, been caused by the sinful
   delight his mother had taken when passing through an idol-grove. [4126]
   Lastly, certain special sins in the parents would result in specific
   diseases in their offspring, and one is mentioned [4127] as causing
   blindness in the children. [4128] But the impression left on our minds
   is, that the disciples felt not sure as to either of these solutions of
   the difficulty. It seemed a mystery, inexplicable on the supposition of
   God's infinite goodness, and to which they sought to apply the common
   Jewish solution. Many similar mysteries meet us in the administration
   of God's Providence - questions, which seem unanswerable, but to which
   we try to give answers, perhaps, not much wiser than the explanations
   suggested by disciples.


   But why seek to answer them at all, since we possess not all, perhaps
   very few of, the data requisite for it? There is one aspect, however,
   of adversity, and of a strange dispensation of evil, on which the light
   of Christ's Words here shines with the brightness of a new morning.
   There is a physical, natural reason for them. God has not specially
   sent them, in the sense of His interference or primary causation,
   although He has sent them in the sense of His knowledge, will, and
   reign. They have come in the ordinary course of things, and are
   traceable to causes which, if we only knew them, would appear to us the
   sequence of the laws which God has imposed on His creation, and which
   are necessary for its orderly continuance. And, further, all such evil
   consequences, from the operation of God's laws, are in the last
   instance to be traced back to the curse which sin has brought upon man
   and on earth. With these His Laws, and with their evil sequences to us
   through the curse of sin, God does not interfere in the ordinary course
   of His Providence; although he would be daring, who would negative the
   possibility of what may seem, though it is not, interference, since the
   natural causes which lead to these evil consequences may so easily,
   naturally, and rationally be affected. But there is another and a
   higher aspect of it, since Christ has come, and is really the Healer of
   all disease and evil by being the Remover of its ultimate moral cause.
   This is indicated in His words, when, putting aside the clumsy
   alternative suggested by the disciples, He told them that it was so in
   order that the works of God might be made manifest in him.' They wanted
   to know the why,' He told them the in order to,' of the man's calamity;
   they wished to understand its reason as regarded its origin, He told
   them its reasonableness in regard to the purpose which it, and all
   similar suffering, should serve, since Christ has come, the Healer of
   evil - because the Saviour from sin. Thus He transferred the question
   from intellectual ground to that of the moral purpose which suffering
   might serve. And this not in itself, nor by any destiny or appointment,
   but because the Coming and Work of the Christ has made it possible to
   us all. Sin and its sequences are still the same, for the world is
   established that it cannot move.' But over it all has risen the Sun of
   Righteousness with healing in His wings; and, if we but open ourselves
   to His influence, these evils may serve this purpose, and so have this
   for their reason, not as, regards their genesis, but their continuance,
   that the works of God may be made manifest.'

   To make this the reality to us, was the work of Him' Who sent, and for
   which He sent, the Christ. And rapidly now must He work it, for
   perpetual example, during the few hours still left of His brief
   working-day. [4129] This figure was not unfamiliar to the Jews, [4130]
   though it may well be that, by thus emphasising the briefness of the
   time, He may also have anticipated any objection to His healing on the
   Sabbath. But it is of even more importance to notice, how the two
   leading thoughts of the previous day's Discourse were now again taken
   up and set forth in the miracle that followed. These were, that He did
   the Work which God had sent Him to do, [4131] and that He was the Light
   of the world. [4132] As its Light He could not but shine so long as He
   was in it. And this He presently symbolised (and is not every miracle a
   symbol?) in the healing of the blind.

   Once more we notice, how in His Deeds, as in His Words, the Lord
   adopted the forms known and used by His contemporaries, while He filled
   them with quite other substance. It has already been stated, [4133]
   that saliva was commonly regarded as a remedy for diseases of the eye,
   although, of course, not for the removal of blindness. With this He
   made clay, which He now used, adding to it the direction to go and wash
   in the Pool of Siloam, a term which literally meant sent.' [4134] A
   symbolism, this, of Him Who was the Sent of the Father. For, all is
   here symbolical: the cure and its means. If we ask ourselves why means
   were used in this instance, we can only suggest, that it was partly for
   the sake of him who was to be healed, partly for theirs who afterwards
   heard of it. For, the blind man seems to have been ignorant of the
   character of his Healer, [4135] and it needed the use of some means to
   make him, so to speak, receptive. On the other hand, not only the use
   of means, but their inadequacy to the object, must have impressed all.
   Symbolical, also, were these means. Sight was restored by clay, made
   out of the ground with the spittle of Him, Whose breath had at the
   first breathed life into clay; and this was then washed away in the
   Pool of Siloam, from whose waters had been drawn on the Feast of
   Tabernacles that which symbolised the forthpouring of the new life by
   the Spirit. Lastly, if it be asked why such miracle should have been
   wrought on one who had not previous faith, who does not even seem to
   have known about the Christ, we can only repeat, that the man himself
   was intended to be a symbol, that the works of God should be made
   manifest in him.'

   And so, what the Pharisees had sought in vain, was freely vouch-safed
   when there was need for it. With inimitable simplicity, itself evidence
   that no legend is told, the man's obedience and healing are recorded.
   We judge, that his first impulse when healed must have been to seek for
   Jesus, naturally, where he had first met Him. On his way, probably past
   his own house to tell his parents, and again on the spot where he had
   so long sat begging, all who had known him must have noticed the great
   change that had passed over him. So marvellous, indeed, did it appear,
   that, while part of the crowd that gathered would, of course,
   acknowledge his identity, others would say: No, but he is like him;' in
   their suspiciousness looking for some imposture. For there can be
   little doubt, that on his way he must have learned more about Jesus
   than merely His Name, [4136] and in turn have communicated to his
   informants the story of his healing. Similarly, the formal question now
   put to him by the Jews was as much, if not more, a preparatory
   inquisition than the outcome of a wish to learn the circumstances of
   his healing. And so we notice in his answer the cautious desire not to
   say anything that could incriminate his Benefactor. He tells the facts
   truthfully, plainly; he accentuates by what means he had recovered,'
   [4137] not received, sight; but otherwise gives no clue by which either
   to discover or to incriminate Jesus. [4138]

   Presently they bring him to the Pharisees, not to take notice of his
   healing, but to found on it a charge against Christ. Such must have
   been their motive, since it was universally known that the leaders of
   the people had, of course informally, agreed to take the strictest
   measures, not only against the Christ, but against any one who
   professed to be His disciple. [4139] The ground on which the present
   charge against Jesus would rest was plain: the healing involved a
   manifold breach of the Sabbath-Law. The first of these was that He had
   made clay. [4140] Next, it would be a question whether any remedy might
   be applied on the holy day. Such could only be done in diseases of the
   internal organs (from the throat downwards), except when danger to life
   or the loss of an organ was involved. [4141] It was, indeed, declared
   lawful to apply, for example, wine to the outside of the eyelid, on the
   ground that this might be treated as washing; but it was sinful to
   apply it to the inside of the eye. And as regards saliva, its
   application to the eye is expressly forbidden, on the ground that it
   was evidently intended as a remedy. [4142]

   There was, therefore, abundant legal ground for a criminal charge. And,
   although on the Sabbath the Sanhedrin would not hold any formal
   meeting, and, even had there been such, the testimony of one man would
   not have sufficed, yet the Pharisees' set the inquiry regularly on
   foot. First, as if not satisfied with the report of those who had
   brought the man, they made him repeat it. [4143] The simplicity of the
   man's language left no room for evasion or subterfuge. Rabbinism was on
   its great trial. The wondrous fact could neither be denied nor
   explained, and the only ground for resisting the legitimate inference
   as to the character of Him Who had done it, was its inconsistence with
   their traditional law. The alternative was: whether their traditional
   law of Sabbath-observance, or else He Who had done such miracles, was
   Divine? Was Christ not of God, because He did not keep the Sabbath in
   their way? But, then; could an open transgressor of God's Law do such
   miracles? In this dilemma they turned to the simple man before them.
   Seeing that He opened' his eyes, what did he say of Him? what was the
   impression left on his mind, who had the best opportunity for judging?
   [4144]

   There is something very peculiar, and, in one sense, most instructive,
   as to the general opinion entertained even by the best-disposed, who
   had not yet been taught the higher truth, in his reply, so simple and
   solemn, so comprehensive in its sequences, and yet so utterly
   inadequate by itself: He is a Prophet.' One possibility still remained.
   After all, the man might not have been really blind; and they might, by
   cross-examining the parents, elicit that about his original condition
   which would explain the pretended cure. But on this most important
   point, the parents, with all their fear of the anger of the Pharisees,
   remained unshaken. He had been born blind; but as to the manner of his
   cure, they declined to offer any opinion. Thus, as so often, the
   machinations of the enemies of Christ led to results the opposite of
   those wished for. For, the evidential value of their attestation of
   their son's blindness was manifestly proportional to their fear of
   committing themselves to any testimony for Christ, well knowing what it
   would entail.

   For to persons so wretchedly poor as to allow their son to live by
   begging, [4145] the consequence of being un-Synagogued,' or put outside
   the congregation [4146] - which was to be the punishment of any who
   confessed Jesus as the Messiah - would have been dreadful. Talmudic
   writings speak of two, or rather, we should say, of three, kinds of
   excommunication,' of which the two first were chiefly disciplinary,
   while the third was the real casting out,' un-Synagoguing,' cutting off
   from the congregation.' [4147] The general designation [4148] for
   excommunication' was Shammatta, although, according to its literal
   meaning, the term would only apply to the severest form of it. [4149]
   The first and lightest degree was the so-called Neziphah or Neziphutha;
   properly, a rebuke,' an inveighing. Ordinarily, its duration extended
   over seven days; but, if pronounced by the Nasi, or Head of the
   Sanhedrin, it lasted for thirty days. In later times, however, it only
   rested for one day on the guilty person. [4150] Perhaps St. Paul
   referred to this rebuke' in the expression which he used about an
   offending Elder. [4151] He certainly adopted the practice in Palestine,
   [4152] when he would not have an Elder rebuked' although he went far
   beyond it when he would have such entreated.' In Palestine it was
   ordered, that an offending Rabbi should be scourged instead of being
   excommunicated. [4153] Yet another direction of St. Paul's is evidently
   derived from these arrangements of the Synagogue, although applied in a
   far different spirit. When the Apostle wrote: An heretic after the
   first and second admonition reject;' there must have been in his mind
   the second degree of Jewish excommunication, the so-called Niddui (from
   the verb to thrust, thrust out, cast out). This lasted for thirty days
   at the least, although among the Babylonians only for seven days.
   [4154] At the end of that term there was a second admonition,' which
   lasted other thirty days. If still unrepentant, the third, or real
   excommunication, was pronounced, which was called the Cherem, or ban,
   and of which the duration was indefinite. Any three persons, or even
   one duly authorised, could pronounce the lowest sentence. The greater
   excommunication (Niddui) - which, happily, could only be pronounced in
   an assembly of ten - must have been terrible, being accompanied by
   curses, [4155] [4156] and, at a later period, sometimes proclaimed with
   the blast of the horn. [4157] [4158] If the person so visited occupied
   an honourable position, it was the custom to intimate his sentence in a
   euphemistic manner, such as: It seems to me that thy companions are
   separating themselves from thee.' He who was so, or similarly
   addressed, would only too well understand its meaning. Henceforth he
   would sit on the ground, and bear himself like one in deep mourning. He
   would allow his beard and hair to grow wild and shaggy; he would not
   bathe, nor anoint himself; he would not be admitted into an assembly of
   ten men, neither to public prayer, nor to the Academy; though he might
   either teach, or be taught by, single individuals. Nay, as if he were a
   leper, people would keep at a distance of four cubits from him. If he
   died, stones were cast on his coffin, nor was he allowed the honour of
   the ordinary funeral, nor were they to mourn for him. Still more
   terrible was the final excommunication, or Cherem, when a ban of
   indefinite duration was laid on a man. Henceforth he was like one dead.
   He was not allowed to study with others, no intercourse was to be held
   with him, he was not even to be shown the road. He might, indeed, buy
   the necessaries of life, but it was forbidden to eat or drink with such
   an one. [4159]

   We can understand, how everyone would dread such an anathema. But when
   we remember, what it would involve to persons in the rank of life, and
   so miserably poor as the parents of that blind man, we no longer wonder
   at their evasion of the question put by the Sanhedrin. And if we ask
   ourselves, on what ground so terrible a punishment could be inflicted
   to all time and in every place - for the ban once pronounced applied
   everywhere - simply for the confession of Jesus as the Christ, the
   answer is not difficult. The Rabbinists enumerate twenty-four grounds
   for excommunication, of which more than one might serve the purpose of
   the Pharisees. But in general, to resist the authority of the Scribes,
   or any of their decrees, or to lead others either away from the
   commandments,' or to what was regarded as profanation of the Divine
   Name, was sufficient to incur the ban, while it must be borne in mind
   that excommunication by the President of the Sanhedrin extended to all
   places and persons. [4160]

   As nothing could be elicited from his parents, the man who had been
   blind was once more summoned before the Pharisees. It was no longer to
   inquire into the reality of his alleged blindness, nor to ask about the
   cure, but simply to demand of him recantation, though this was put in
   the most specious manner. Thou hast been healed: own that it was only
   by God's Hand miraculously stretched forth, [4161] and that this man'
   had nothing to do with it, save that the coincidence may have been
   allowed to try the faith of Israel. It could not have been Jesus Who
   had done it, for they knew Him to be a sinner.' Of the two alternatives
   they had chosen that of the absolute rightness of their own
   Sabbath-traditions as against the evidence of His Miracles. Virtually,
   then, this was the condemnation of Christ and the apotheosis of
   traditionalism. And yet, false as their conclusion was, there was this
   truth in their premisses, that they judged of miracles by the moral
   evidence in regard to Him, Who was represented as working them.

   But he who had been healed of his blindness was not to be so betrayed
   into a denunciation of his great Physician. The simplicity and
   earnestness of his convictions enabled him to gain even a logical
   victory. It was his turn now to bring back the question to the issue
   which they had originally raised; and we admire it all the more, as we
   remember the consequences to this poor man of thus daring the
   Pharisees. As against their opinion about Jesus, as to the correctness
   of which neither he nor others could have direct knowledge, [4162]
   there was the unquestionable fact of his healing of which he had
   personal knowledge. The renewed inquiry now by the Pharisees, as to the
   manner in which Jesus had healed him, [4163] might have had for its
   object to betray the man into a positive confession, or to elicit
   something demoniacal in the mode of the cure. The blind man had now
   fully the advantage. He had already told them; why the renewed inquiry?
   As he put it half ironically: Was it because they felt the wrongness of
   their own position, and that they should become His disciples? It stung
   them to the quick; they lost all self-possession, and with this their
   moral defeat became complete. Thou art the disciple of that man, but we
   (according to the favourite phrase) are the disciples of Moses.' Of the
   Divine Mission of Moses they knew, but of the Mission of Jesus they
   knew nothing. [4164] The unlettered man had now the full advantage in
   the controversy. In this, indeed,' there was the marvellous,' that the
   leaders of Israel should confess themselves ignorant of the authority
   of One, Who had power to open the eyes of the blind - a marvel which
   had never before been witnessed. If He had that power, whence had He
   obtained it, and why? It could only have been from God. They said, He
   was a sinner' - and yet there was no principle more frequently repeated
   by the Rabbis, [4165] than that answers to prayer depended on a man
   being devout' and doing the Will of God. There could therefore by only
   one inference: If Jesus had not Divine Authority, He could not have had
   Divine Power.

   The argument was unanswerable, and in its unanswerableness shows us,
   not indeed the purpose, but the evidential force of Christ's Miracles.
   In one sense they had no purpose, or rather were purpose to themselves,
   being the forthbursting of His Power and the manifestation of His Being
   and Mission, of which latter, as applied to things physical, they were
   part. But the truthful reasoning of that untutored man, which
   confounded the acuteness of the sages, shows the effect of these
   manifestations on all whose hearts were open to the truth. The
   Pharisees had nothing to answer, and, as not unfrequently in analogous
   cases, could only, in their fury, cast him out with bitter reproaches.
   Would he teach them - he, whose very disease showed him to have been a
   child conceived and born in sin, and who, ever since his birth, had
   been among ignorant, Law-neglecting sinners'?

   But there was Another, Who watched and knew him: He Whom, so far as he
   knew, he had dared to confess, and for Whom he was content to suffer.
   Let him now have the reward of his faith, even its completion; and so
   shall it become manifest to all time, how, as we follow and cherish the
   better light, it riseth upon us in all its brightness, and that
   faithfulness in little bringeth the greater stewardship. Tenderly did
   Jesus seek him out, wherever it may have been: [4166] and, as He found
   him, this one question did He ask, whether the conviction of his
   experience was not growing into the higher faith of the yet unseen:
   Dost thou believe on the Son of God?' [4167] He had had personal
   experience of Him - was not that such as to lead up to the higher
   faith? And is it not always so, that the higher faith is based on the
   conviction of personal experience - that we believe on Him as the Son
   of God, because we have experience of Him as the God-sent, Who has
   Divine Power, and has opened the eyes of the blind-born - and Who has
   done to us what had never been done by any other in the world? Thus is
   faith always the child of experience, and yet its father also; faith
   not without experience, and yet beyond experience; faith not superseded
   by experience, but made reasonable by it.

   To such a soul it needed only the directing Word of Christ. And Who is
   He, Lord, that I may believe on Him?' [4168] It seems as if the
   question of Jesus had kindled in him the conviction of what was the
   right answer. We almost see how, like a well of living water, the words
   sprang gladsome from his inmost heart, and how he looked up expectant
   on Jesus. To such readiness of faith there could be only one answer. In
   language more plain than He had ever before used, Jesus answered, and
   with immediate confession of implicit faith the man lowly worshipped.
   [4169] And so it was, that the first time he saw his Deliverer, it was
   to worship Him. It was the highest stage yet attained. What contrast
   this faith and worship of the poor unlettered man, once blind, now in
   every sense seeing, to the blindness of judgment which had fallen on
   those who were the leaders of Israel! [4170] The cause alike of the one
   and the other was the Person of the Christ. For our relationship to Him
   determines sight or blindness, as we either receive the evidence of
   what He is from what He indubitably does, or reject it, because we hold
   by our own false conceptions of God, and of what His Will to us is. And
   so is Christ also for judgment.'

   There were those who still followed Him - not convinced by, nor as yet
   decided against Him - Pharisees, who well understood the application of
   His Words. Formally, it had been a contest between traditionalism and
   the Work of Christ. They also were traditionalists - were they also
   blind? But, nay, they had misunderstood Him by leaving out the moral
   element, thus showing themselves blind indeed. It was not the calamity
   of blindness; but it was a blindness in which they were guilty, and for
   which they were responsible, [4171] which indeed was the result of
   their deliberate choice: therefore their sin - not their blindness only
   - remained!
     __________________________________________________________________

   [4116] Godet supposes that it had taken place on the evening of the
   Octave of the Feast. On the other hand, Canon Westcott would relegate
   both ch. ix. and x. to the Feast of the Dedication.' But his argument
   on the subject, from another rendering of St. John x. 22, has failed to
   convince me.

   [4117] St. John ix. 14.

   [4118] Acts iii. 2.

   [4119] St. John ix. 35.

   [4120] Peah viii. 9.

   [4121] Jer. Peah viii. 9, p. 21 b.

   [4122] So in the original.

   [4123] Sanh. 91 b; Ber. R. 34.

   [4124] This opinion has, however, nothing to do with the migration of
   souls' - a doctrine which has been generally, but quite erroneously,
   supposed that Josephus imputed to the Pharisees. The misunderstanding
   of Jew. War. ii. 8. 14, should be corrected by Antiq. xviii. 1. 3.

   [4125] Shabb. 32 b; 105 b; Yalkut on Ruth, vol. ii. par. 600, p. 163 c.

   [4126] Midr. on Ruth. iii. 13.

   [4127] Nedar. 20 a.

   [4128] At the same time those opinions, which are based on higher moral
   views of marriage, are only those of an individual teacher. The latter
   are cynically and coarsely set aside by the sages' in Nedar. 20 b.

   [4129] St. John ix. 4, 5.

   [4130] Ab. ii. 15.

   [4131] St. John viii. 28, 29; comp. ix. 4.

   [4132] viii. 12; comp. ix. 5.

   [4133] See Book III. ch. xxxiv. p. 48.

   [4134] The etymological correctness of the rendering Siloam by Sent' is
   no longer called in question. As to the spring Siloam, see ch. vii. of
   this Book.

   [4135] St. John ix. 11.

   [4136] ver. 11.

   [4137] This is the proper rendering. The organs of sight existed, but
   could not be used.

   [4138] ver. 12.

   [4139] ver. 22.

   [4140] Shabb. xxiv. 3.

   [4141] Jerus. Shabb. 14 d.

   [4142] Jer. Shabb. u. s.

   [4143] St. John ix. 15.

   [4144] vv. 17 and following.

   [4145] It would lead too far to set these forth in detail. But the
   shrinking from receiving alms was in proportion to the duty of giving
   them. Only extreme necessity would warrant begging, and to solicit
   charity needlessly, or to simulate any disease for the purpose, would,
   deservedly, bring the reality in punishment on the guilty.

   [4146] posungogos gnesthai. So also St. John xii. 42; xvi. 2.

   [4147] In Jer. Moed K. 81 d, line 20 from top: {hebrew}

   [4148] Both Buxtorf and Levy have made this abundantly clear, but
   Jewish authorities are not wanting which regard this as the worst kind
   of ban.

   [4149] Levy derives it from {hebrew}, to destroy, to root out. The
   Rabbinic derivations in Moed K. 17 a, are only a play upon the word.

   [4150] Moed K. 16 a and b.

   [4151] 1 Tim. v.

   [4152] But there certainly were notable exceptions to this rule, even
   in Palestine. Among the Babylonian Jews it did not obtain at all.

   [4153] Moed K. 17 a; Nedar. 7 b; Pes. 52 a.

   [4154] Moed K. 16 a.

   [4155] Moed K. 16 a; Shebh. 36 a; Baba Mez. 59 b.

   [4156] Buxtorf here reminds us of 1 Cor. v. 5.

   [4157] Shebh. 36 a; Sanh. 107 printed in the Chesronoth ha-Shas, p. 25
   b.

   [4158] There our Lord is said to have been anathematised to the sound
   of 400 trumpets. The passage does not appear in the expurgated editions
   of the Talmud.

   [4159] Comp. 1 Cor. v. 11.

   [4160] Jer. Moed K. 81 d, about the middle.

   [4161] The common view (Meyer, Watkins, Westcott) is, that the
   expression, Give glory to God' was merely a formula of solemn
   adjuration, like Josh. vii. 19. But even so, as Canon Westcott remarks,
   it implies that the cure was due directly to God.'

   [4162] In the original: If He is a sinner, I know not. One thing I
   know, that, being blind, now I see.'

   [4163] St. John ix. 26.

   [4164] ver. 29.

   [4165] Ber. 6 b; Taan. iii. 8; Sukk. 14 a; Yoma 29 a.

   [4166] St. John ix. 35.

   [4167] With all respect for such authority as that of Professors
   Westcott and Hort (The N.T.' p. 212), I cannot accept the proposed
   reading Son of Man,' instead of Son of God.' Admittedly, the evidence
   for the two readings is evenly balanced, and the internal evidence
   seems to be strongly in favour of the reading Son of God.'

   [4168] St. John ix. 36.

   [4169] proseknesen. The word is never used by St. John of mere respect
   for man, but always implies Divine worship. In the Gospel it occurs ch.
   iv. 20-24; ix. 38; xii. 20; and twenty-three times in the Book of
   Revelation, but always in the sense of worship.

   [4170] ver. 39.

   [4171] ver. 41.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER X.
THE GOOD SHEPHERD' AND HIS ONE FLOCK' - LAST DISCOURSE AT THE FEAST OF
TABERNACLES.

   (St. John x. 1-21.)

   The closing words which Jesus had spoken to those Pharisees who
   followed HIm breathe the sadness of expected near judgment, rather than
   the hopefulness of expostulation. And the Discourse which followed, ere
   He once more left Jerusalem, is of the same character. It seems, as if
   Jesus could not part from the City in holy anger, but ever, and only,
   with tears. All the topics of the former Discourses are now resumed and
   applied. They are not in any way softened or modified, but uttered in
   accents of loving sadness rather than of reproving monition. This
   connection with the past proves, that the Discourse was spoken
   immediately after, and in connection with, the events recorded in the
   previous chapters. At the same time, the tone adopted by Christ
   prepares us for His Peræan Ministry, which may be described as that of
   the last and fullest outgoing of His most intense pity. This, in
   contrast to what was exhibited by the rulers of Israel, and which would
   so soon bring terrible judgment on them. For, if such things were done
   in the green tree' of Israel's Messiah-King, what would the end be in
   the dry wood of Israel's commonwealth and institutions?

   It was in accordance with the character of the Discourse presently
   under consideration, that Jesus spake it, not, indeed, in Parables in
   the strict sense (for none such are recorded in the Fourth Gospel), but
   in an allegory [4172] in the Parabolic form, [4173] hiding the higher
   truths from those who, having eyes, had not seen, but revealing them to
   such whose eyes had been opened. If the scenes of the last few days had
   made anything plain, it was the utter unfitness of the teachers of
   Israel for their professed work of feeding the flock of God. The
   Rabbinists also called their spiritual leaders feeders,' Parnasin
   ({hebrew}) - a term by which the Targum renders some of the references
   to the Shepherds' in Ezek. xxxiv. and Zech xi. [4174] The term
   comprised the two ideas of leading' and feeding,' which are separately
   insisted on in the Lord's allegory. As we think of it, no better
   illustration, nor more apt, could be found for those to whom the flock
   of God' was entrusted. It needed not therefore that a sheepfold should
   have been in view, [4175] to explain the form of Christ's address.
   [4176] It only required to recall the Old Testament language about the
   shepherding of God, and that of evil shepherds, to make the application
   to what had so lately happened. They were, surely, not shepherds, who
   had cast out the healed blind man, or who so judged of the Christ, and
   would cast out all His disciples. They had entered into God's
   Sheepfold, but not by the door by which the owner, God, had brought His
   flock into the fold. To it the entrance had been His free love, His
   gracious provision, His thoughts of pardoning, His purpose of saving
   mercy. That was God's Old Testament-door into His Sheepfold. Not by
   that door, as had so lately fully appeared, had Israel's rulers come
   in. They had climbed up to their place in the fold some other way -
   with the same right, or by the same wrong, as a thief or a robber. They
   had wrongfully taken what did not belong to them - cunningly and
   undetected, like a thief; they had allotted it to themselves, and
   usurped it by violence, like a robber. What more accurate description
   could be given of the means by which the Pharisees and Sadducees had
   attained the rule over God's flock, and claimed it for themselves? And
   what was true of them holds equally so of all, who, like them, enter by
   some other way.'

   How different He, Who comes in and leads us through God's door of
   covenant-mercy and Gospel-promise - the door by which God had brought,
   and ever brings, His flock into His fold! This was the true Shepherd.
   The allegory must, of course, not be too closely pressed; but, as we
   remember how in the East the flocks are at night driven into a large
   fold, and charge of them is given to an under shepherd, we can
   understand how, when the shepherd comes in the morning, the doorkeeper'
   [4177] or guardian' opens to him. In interpreting the allegory, stress
   must be laid not so much on any single phrase, be it the porter,' the
   door,' or the opening,' as on their combination. If the shepherd comes
   to the door, the porter hastens to open it to him from within, that he
   may obtain access to the flock; and when a true spiritual Shepherd
   comes to the true spiritual door, it is opened to him by the guardian
   from within, that is, he finds ready and immediate access. Equally
   pictorial is the progress of the allegory. Having thus gained access to
   His flock, it has not been to steal or rob, but the Shepherd knows and
   calls them, each by his name, and leads them out. We mark that in the
   expression: when He has put forth all His own' [4178] - the word is a
   strong one. For they have to go each singly, and perhaps they are not
   willing to go out each by himself, or even to leave that fold, and so
   he puts' or thrusts them forth, and He does so to all His own.' Then
   the Eastern shepherd places himself at the head of his flock, and goes
   before them, guiding them, making sure of their following simply by his
   voice, which they know. So would His flock follow Christ, for they know
   His Voice, and in vain would strangers seek to lead them away, as the
   Pharisees had tried. It was not the known Voice of their own Shepherd,
   and they would only flee from it. [4179]

   We can scarcely wonder, that they who heard it did not understand the
   allegory, for they were not of His flock and knew not His Voice. But
   His own knew it then, and would know it for ever. Therefore,' [4180]
   both for the sake of the one and the other, He continued, now dividing
   for greater clearness the two leading ideas of His allegory, and
   applying each separately for better comfort. These two ideas were:
   entrance by the door, and the characteristics of the good Shepherd -
   thus affording a twofold test by which to recognise the true, and
   distinguish it from the false.

   I. The door - Christ was the Door. [4181] The entrance into God's fold
   and to God's flock was only through that, of which Christ was the
   reality. And it had ever been so. All the Old Testament institutions,
   prophecies, and promises, so far as they referred to access into God's
   fold, meant Christ. And all those who went before Him, [4182]
   pretending to be the door - whether Pharisees, Sadducees, or
   Nationalists - were only thieves and robbers: that was not the door
   into the Kingdom of God. And the sheep, God's flock, did not hear them;
   for, although they might pretend to lead the flock, the voice was that
   of strangers. The transition now to another application of the
   allegorical idea of the door' was natural and almost necessary, though
   it appears somewhat abrupt. Even in this it is peculiarly Jewish. We
   must understand this transition as follows: I am the Door; those who
   professed otherwise to gain access to the fold have climbed in some
   other way. But if I am the only, I am also truly the Door. And,
   dropping the figure, if any man enters by Me, he shall be saved,
   securely go out and in (where the language is not to be closely
   pressed), in the sense of having liberty and finding pasture.

   II. This forms also the transition to the second leading idea of the
   allegory: the True and Good Shepherd. Here we mark a fourfold
   progression of thought, which reminds us of the poetry of the Book of
   Psalms. There the thought expressed in one line or one couplet is
   carried forward and developed in the next, forming what are called the
   Psalms of Ascent (of Degrees'). And in the Discourse of Christ also the
   final thought of each couplet of verses is carried forward, or rather
   leads upward in the next. Thus we have here a Psalm of Degrees
   concerning the Good Shepherd and His Flock, and, at the same time, a
   New Testament version of Psalm xxiii. Accordingly its analysis might be
   formulated as follows: -

   1. Christ, the Good Shepherd, in contrast to others who falsely claimed
   to be the shepherds. [4183] Their object had been self, and they had
   pursued it even at the cost of the sheep, of their life and safety. He
   came' [4184] for them, to give, not to take, that they may have life
   and have abundance.' [4185]

   Life,' nay, that they may have it, I lay down' [4186] Mine: so does it
   appear that I am the Good [4187] Shepherd.' [4188]

   2. The Good Shepherd Who layeth down His life for His Sheep! What a
   contrast to a mere hireling, whose are not the sheep, and who fleeth at
   sight of the wolf (danger), and the wolf seizeth them, and scattereth
   (viz., the flock): (he fleeth) because he is a hireling, and careth not
   for the sheep.' The simile of the wolf must not be too closely pressed,
   but taken in a general sense, to point the contrast to Him Who layeth
   down His Life for His sheep.' [4189]

   Truly He is - is seen to be - the fair Shepherder,' [4190] Whose are
   the sheep, and as such, I know Mine, and Mine know Me, even as the
   Father knoweth Me, and I know the Father. And I lay down My Life for
   the sheep.'

   3. For the sheep that are Mine, whom I know, and for whom I lay down My
   Life! But those sheep, they are not only of this fold,' not all of the
   Jewish fold,' but also scattered sheep of the Gentiles. They have all
   the characteristics of the flock: they are His; and they hear His
   Voice; but as yet they are outside the fold. Them also the Good
   Shepherd must lead,' and, in evidence that they are His, as He calls
   them and goes before them, they shall hear His Voice, and so, O most
   glorious consummation, they shall become one flock [4191] and one
   Shepherd.'

   And thus is the great goal of the Old Testament reached, and the good
   tidings of great joy' which issue from Israel are unto all people.' The
   Kingdom of David, which is the Kingdom of God, is set up upon earth,
   and opened to all believers. We cannot help noticing - though it almost
   seems to detract from it - how different from the Jewish ideas of it is
   this Kingdom with its Shepherd-King, Who knows and Who lays down His
   Life for the sheep, and Who leads the Gentiles not to subjection nor to
   inferiority, but to equality of faith and privileges, taking the Jews
   out of their special fold and leading up the Gentiles, and so making of
   both one flock.' Whence did Jesus of Nazareth obtain these thoughts and
   views, towering so far aloft of all around?

   But, on the other hand, they are utterly un-Gentile also - if by the
   term Gentile' we mean the Gentile Churches,' in antagonism to the
   Jewish Christians, as a certain school of critics would represent them,
   which traces the origin of this Gospel to this separation. A Gospel
   written in that spirit would never have spoken on this wise of the
   mutual relation of Jews and Gentiles towards Christ and in the Church.
   The sublime words of Jesus are only compatible with one supposition:
   that He was indeed the Christ of God. Nay, although men have studied or
   cavilled at these words for eighteen and a half centuries, they have
   not yet reached unto this: They shall become one flock, one Shepherd.'

   4. In the final Step of Ascent' [4192] the leading thoughts of the
   whole Discourse are taken up and carried to the last and highest
   thought. The Good Shepherd that brings together the One Flock! Yes - by
   laying down His Life, but also by taking it up again. Both are
   necessary for the work of the Good Shepherd - nay, the life is laid
   down in the surrender of sacrifice, in order that it may be taken up
   again, and much more fully, in the Resurrection-Power. And, therefore,
   His Father loveth Him as the Messiah-Shepherd, Who so fully does the
   work committed to Him, and so entirely surrenders Himself to it.

   His Death, His Resurrection, let no one imagine that it comes from
   without! It is His own act. He has power' in regard to both, and both
   are His own, voluntary, Sovereign, and Divine acts.

   And this, all this, in order to be the Shepherd-Saviour - to die, and
   rise for His Sheep, and thus to gather them all, Jews and Gentiles,
   into one flock, and to be their Shepherd. This, neither more nor less,
   was the Mission which God had given Him; this, the commandment' which
   He had received of His Father - that which God had given Him to do.
   [4193]

   It was a noble close of the series of those Discourses in the Temple,
   which had it for their object to show, that He was truly sent of God.

   And, in a measure, they attained that object. To some, indeed, it all
   seemed unintelligible, incoherent, madness; and they fell back on the
   favourite explanation of all this strange drama - He hath a demon! But
   others there were - let us hope, many, not yet His disciples - to whose
   hearts these words went straight. And how could they resist the
   impression? These utterances are not of a demonised' - and, then, it
   came back to them: Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?'

   And so, once again, the Light of His Words and His Person fell upon His
   Works, and, as ever, revealed their character, and made them clear.

   Note. - It seems right here, in a kind of Postscript-Note,' to call
   attention to what could not have been inserted in the text without
   breaking up its unity, and yet seems too important to be relegated to
   an ordinary foot-note. In Yoma 66 b, lines 18 to 24 from top, we have a
   series of questions addressed to Rabbi Eliezer ben Hyrcanos, designed -
   as it seems to me - to test his views about Jesus and his relation to
   the new doctrine. Rabbi Eliezer, one of the greatest Rabbis, was the
   brother-in-law of Gamaliel II., the son of that Gamaliel at whose feet
   Paul sat. He may, therefore, have been acquainted with the Apostle. And
   we have indubitable evidence that he had intercourse with Jewish
   Christians, and took pleasure in their teaching; and, further, that he
   was accused of favouring Christianity. Under these circumstances, the
   series of covered, enigmatic questions, reported as addressed to him,
   gains a new interest. I can only repeat, that I regard them as
   referring to the Person and the Words of Christ. One of these questions
   is to this effect: Is it [right, proper, duty] for the Shepherd to save
   a lamb from the lion?' To this the Rabbi gives (as always in this
   series of questions) an evasive answer, as follows: You have only asked
   me about the lamb.' On this the following question is next put, I
   presume by way of forcing an express reply: Is it [right, proper, duty]
   to save the Shepherd from the lion?' and to this the Rabbi once more
   evasively replies: You have only asked me about the Shepherd.' Thus, as
   the words of Christ to which covert reference is made have only meaning
   when the two ideas of the Sheep and the Shepherd are combined, the
   Rabbi, by dividing them, cleverly evaded giving an answer to his
   questioners. But these inferences come to us, all of deepest
   importance: 1. I regard the questions above quoted as containing a
   distinct reference to the words of Christ in St. John x. 11. Indeed,
   the whole string of questions, of which the above form part, refers to
   Christ and His Words. 2. It casts a peculiar light, not only upon the
   personal history of this great Rabbi, the brother-in-law of the
   Patriarch Gamaliel II., but a side-light also, on the history of
   Nicodemus. Of course, such evasive answers are utterly unworthy of a
   disciple of Christ, and quite incompatible with the boldness of
   confession which must characterise them. But the question arises - now
   often seriously discussed by Jewish writers: how far many Rabbis and
   laymen may have gone in their belief of Christ, and yet - at least in
   too many instances - fallen short of discipleship; and, lastly, as to
   the relation between the early Church and the Jews, on which not a few
   things of deep interest have to be said, though it may not be on the
   present occasion. 3. Critically also, the quotation is of the deepest
   importance. For, does it not furnish a reference - and that on the lips
   of Jews - to the Fourth Gospel, and that from the close of the first
   century? There is here something which the opponents of its genuineness
   and authenticity will have to meet and answer.

   Another series of similar allegorical questions in connection with R.
   Joshua b.Chananyah is recorded in Bekhor. 8 a and b, but answered by
   the Rabbi in an anti-Christian sense. See Mandelstamm, Talmud. Stud. i.
   But Mandelstamm goes too far in his view of the purely allegorical
   meaning, especially of the introductory part.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [4172] The word is not parable, but paroima proverb or allegory. On the
   essential characteristics of the Parables, see Book III. ch. xxiii.

   [4173] St. John x. 6.

   [4174] The figure of a shepherd is familiar in Rabbinic as in Biblical
   literature. Comp. Bemidb. R. 23; Yalkut i. p. 68 a.

   [4175] This is the view advocated by Archdeacon Watkins, ad loc.

   [4176] St. John x. 1-5.

   [4177] This is the proper reading: he who locked the door from within
   and guarded it.

   [4178] This is the literal rendering.

   [4179] St. John x. 4, 5.

   [4180] ver. 7.

   [4181] vv. 7-9.

   [4182] The words who went before Me' are questioned by many.

   [4183] ver. 10.

   [4184] Not as in the A.V., am come.'

   [4185] As Canon Westcott remarks, this points to something more than
   life.'

   [4186] This is the proper rendering.

   [4187] Literally fair.' As Canon Westcott, with his usual happiness,
   expresses it: not only good inwardly (gaths) but good as perceived
   (kals).'

   [4188] This would be all the more striking that, according to Rabbinic
   law, a shepherd was not called upon to expose his own life for the
   safety of his flock, nor responsible in such a case. The opposite view
   depends on a misunderstanding of a sentence quoted from Bab. Mez. 93 b.
   As the context there shows, if a shepherd leaves his flock, and in his
   absence the wolf comes, the shepherd is responsible, but only because
   he ought not to have left the flock, and his presence might have
   prevented the accident. In case of attack by force supérieure he is not
   responsible for his flock.

   [4189] See an important note at the end of this chapter.

   [4190] See Note 4.

   [4191] Not fold,' as in the A.V.

   [4192] St. John x. 17, 18.

   [4193] St. John x. 18.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XI.
THE FIRST PERÆAN DISCOURSES - TO THE PHARISEES CONCERNING THE TWO KINGDOMS -
THEIR CONTEST - WHAT QUALIFIES A DISCIPLE FOR THE KINGDOM OF GOD, AND HOW ISRAEL
WAS BECOMING SUBJECT TO THAT OF EVIL.

   (St. Matt. xii. 22-45; St. Luke xi. 14-36.)

   It was well that Jesus should, for the present, have parted from
   Jerusalem with words like these. They would cling about His hearers
   like the odour of incense that had ascended. Even the schism' that had
   come among them [4194] concerning His Person made it possible not only
   to continue His Teaching, but to return to the City once more ere His
   final entrance. For, His Peræan Ministry, which extended from after the
   Feast of Tabernacles to the week preceding the last Passover, was, so
   to speak, cut in half by the brief visit of Jesus to Jerusalem at the
   Feast of the Dedication. [4195] Thus, each part of the Peræan Ministry
   would last about three months; the first, from about the end of
   September to the month of December; [4196] the second, from that period
   to the beginning of April. [4197] Of these six months we have (with the
   solitary exception of St. Matthew xii. 22-45), [4198] no other account
   than that furnished by St. Luke, [4199] [4200] although, as usually,
   the Jerusalem and Judæan incidents of it are described by St. John.
   [4201] After that we have the account of His journey to the last
   Passover, recorded, with more or less detail, in the three Synoptic
   Gospels.

   It will be noticed that this section is peculiarly lacking in incident.
   It consists almost exclusively of Discourses and Parables, with but few
   narrative portions interspersed. And this, not only because the season
   of the year must have made itinerancy difficult, and thus have hindered
   the introduction to new scenes and of new persons, but chiefly from the
   character of His Ministry in Peræa. We remember that, similarly, the
   beginning of Christ's Galilean Ministry had been chiefly marked by
   Discourses and Parables. Besides, after what had passed, and must now
   have been so well known, illustrative Deeds could scarcely have been so
   requisite in Peræa. In fact, His Peræan was, substantially, a
   resumption of His early Galilean Ministry, only modified and influenced
   by the much fuller knowledge of the people concerning Christ, and the
   greatly developed enmity of their leaders. This accounts for the
   recurrence, although in fuller, or else in modified, form, of many
   things recorded in the earlier part of this History. Thus, to begin
   with, we can understand how He would, at this initial stage of His
   Peræan, as in that of His Galilean Ministry, repeat, when asked for
   instruction concerning prayer, those sacred words ever since known as
   the Lord's Prayer. The variations are so slight as to be easily
   accounted for by the individuality of the reporter. [4202] They afford,
   however, the occasion for remarking on the two principal differences.
   In St. Luke the prayer is for the forgiveness of sins,' while St.
   Matthew uses the Hebraic term debts,' which has passed even into the
   Jewish Liturgy, denoting our guilt as indebtedness ({hebrew}). Again,
   the day by day' of St. Luke, which further explains the petition for
   daily bread,' common both to St. Matthew and St. Luke, may be
   illustrated by the beautiful Rabbinic teaching, that the Manna fell
   only for each day, in order that thought of their daily dependence
   might call forth constant faith in our Father Which is in heaven.'
   [4203] [4204] Another Rabbinic saying places [4205] our nourishment on
   the same level with our redemption, as regards the thanks due to God
   and the fact that both are day by day. [4206] Yet a third Rabbinic
   saying [4207] notes the peculiar manner in which both nourishment and
   redemption are always mentioned in Scripture (by reduplicated
   expressions), and how, while redemption took place by an Angel, [4208]
   nourishment is attributed directly to God. [4209]

   But to return. From the introductory expression: When (or whenever) ye
   pray, say' - we venture to infer, that this prayer was intended, not
   only as the model, but as furnishing the words for the future use of
   the Church. Yet another suggestion may be made. The request, Lord,
   teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples,' [4210] seems to
   indicate what was the certain place,' which, now consecreated by our
   Lord's prayer, became the school for ours. It seems at least likely,
   that the allusion of the disciples to the Baptist may have been
   prompted by the circumstance, that the locality was that which had been
   the scene of John's labours - of course, in Peræa. Such a note of place
   is the more interesting, that St. Luke so rarely indicates localities.
   In fact, he leaves us in ignorance of what was the central place in
   Christ's Peræan Ministry, although there must have been such. In the
   main, the events are, indeed, most likely narrated in their
   chronological order. But, as Discourses, Parables, and incidents are so
   closely mixed up, it will be better, in a work like the present, for
   clearness' and briefness' sake, to separate and group them, so far as
   possible. Accordingly, this chapter will be devoted to the briefest
   summary of the Lord's Discourses in Peræa, previous to His return to
   Jerusalem for the Feast of the Dedication of the Temple.

   The first of these was on the occasion of His casting out a demon,
   [4211] and restoring speech to the demonised; or if, as seems likely,
   the cure is the same as that recorded in St. Matt. xii. 22, both sight
   and speech, which had probably been paralysed. This is one of the cases
   in which it is difficult to determine whether narratives in different
   Gospels, with slightly varying details, represent different events or
   only differing modes of narration. It needs no argument to prove, that
   substantially the same event, such as the healing of a blind or dumb
   demonised person, may, and probably would, have taken place on more
   than one occasion, and that, when it occurred, it would elicit
   substantially the same remarks by the people, and the same charge
   against Christ of superior demoniac agency which the Pharisees had now
   distinctly formulated. [4212] Again, when recording similar events, the
   Evangelists would naturally come to tell them in much the same manner.
   Hence, it does not follow that two similar narratives in different
   Gospels always represent the same event. But in this instance, it seems
   likely. The earlier place which it occupies in the Gospel by St.
   Matthew may be explained by its position in a group denunciatory of the
   Pharisees; and the notice there of their blasphemous charge of His
   being the instrument of Satan probably indicates the outcome of their
   council,' how they might destroy Him. [4213] [4214]

   It is this charge of the Pharisees which forms the main subject of
   Christ's address, His language being now much more explicit than
   formerly, [4215] even as the opposition of the Pharisees had more fully
   ripened. In regard to the slight difference in the narratives of St.
   Matthew and St. Luke, we mark that, as always, the Words of the Lord
   are more fully reported by the former, while the latter supplies some
   vivid pictorial touches. [4216] The following are the leading features
   of Christ's reply to the Pharisaic charge: First, It was utterly
   unreasonable, [4217] and inconsistent with their own premisses, [4218]
   showing that their ascription of Satanic agency to what Christ did was
   only prompted by hostility to His Person. This mode of turning the
   argument against the arguer was peculiarly Hebraic, and it does not
   imply any assertion on the part of Christ, as to whether or not the
   disciples of the Pharisees really cast out demons. Mentally, we must
   supply - according to your own professions, your disciples cast out
   demons. If so, by whom are they doing it?


   But, secondly, beneath this logical argumentation lies deep and
   spiritual instruction, closely connected with the late teaching during
   the festive days in Jerusalem. It is directed against the flimsy,
   superstitious, and unspiritual views entertained by Israel, alike of
   the Kingdom of evil and of that of God. For, if we ignore the moral
   aspect of Satan and his kingdom, all degenerates into the absurdities
   and superstitions of the Jewish view concerning demons and Satan, which
   are fully described in another place. [4219] On the other hand,
   introduce the ideas of moral evil, of the concentration of its power in
   a kingdom of which Satan is the representative and ruler, and of our
   own inherent sinfulness, which makes us his subjects - and all becomes
   clear. Then, truly, can Satan not cast out Satan - else how could his
   kingdom stand; then, also, is the casting out of Satan only by God's
   Spirit,' or Finger:' and this is the Kingdom of God. [4220] Nay, by
   their own admission, the casting out of Satan was part of the work of
   Messiah. [4221] [4222] Then had the Kingdom of God, indeed, come to
   them - for in this was the Kingdom of God; and He was the God-sent
   Messiah, come not for the glory of Israel, nor for anything outward or
   intellectual, but to engage in mortal conflict with moral evil, and
   with Satan as its representative. In that contest Christ, as the
   Stronger, bindeth the strong one,' spoils his house (divideth his
   spoil), and takes from him the armour in which his strength lay (he
   trusted') by taking away the power of sin. [4223] This is the work of
   the Messiah - and, therefore also, no one can be indifferent towards
   Him, because all, being by nature in a certain relation towards Satan,
   must, since the Messiah had commenced His Work, occupy a definite
   relationship towards the Christ Who combats Satan. [4224] [4225]

   It follows, that the work of the Christ is a moral contest waged
   through the Spirit of God, in which, from their position, all must take
   a part. But it is conceivable that a man may not only try to be
   passively, but even be actively on the enemy's side, and this not by
   merely speaking against the Christ, which might be the outcome of
   ignorance or unbelief, but by representing that as Satanic which was
   the object of His Coming. [4226] Such perversion of all that is highest
   and holiest, such opposition to, and denunciation of, the Holy Spirit
   as if He were the manifestation of Satan, represents sin in its
   absolute completeness, and for which there can be no pardon, since the
   state of mind of which it is the outcome admits not the possibility of
   repentance, because its essence lies in this, to call that Satanic
   which is the very object of repentance. It were unduly to press the
   Words of Christ, to draw from them such inferences as, whether sins
   unforgiven in this world might or might not be forgiven in the next,
   since, manifestly, it was not the intention of Christ to teach on this
   subject. On the other hand, His Words seem to imply that, at least as
   regards this sin, there is no room for forgiveness in the other world.
   For, the expression is not the age to come' ({hebrew}), but, the world
   to come' ({hebrew}, or, {hebrew}), which, as we know, does not strictly
   refer to Messianic times. but to the future and eternal, as
   distinguished both from this world ({hebrew}), and from the days of the
   Messiah' ({hebrew}). [4227]

   3. But this recognition of the spiritual, which was the opposite of the
   sin against the Holy Ghost, was, as Christ had so lately explained in
   Jerusalem, only to be attained by spiritual kinship with it. [4228] The
   tree must be made good, if the fruit were to be good; tree and fruit
   would correspond to each other. How, then, could these Pharisees speak
   good things,' since the state of the heart determined speech and
   action? Hence, a man would have to give an account even of every idle
   word, since, however trifling it might appear to others or to oneself,
   it was really the outcome of the heart,' and showed the inner state.
   And thus, in reality. would a man's future in judgment be determined by
   his words; a conclusion the more solemn, when we remember its bearing
   on what His disciples on the one side, and the Pharisees on the other,
   said concerning Christ and the Spirit of God.

   4. Both logically and morally the Words of Christ were unanswerable;
   and the Pharisees fell back on the old device of challenging proof of
   His Divine Mission by some visible sign. [4229] But this was to avoid
   the appeal to the moral element which the Lord had made; it was an
   attempt to shift the argument from the moral to the physical. It was
   the moral that was at fault, or rather, wanting in them; and no amount
   of physical evidence or demonstration could have supplied that. All the
   signs from heaven would not have supplied the deep sense of sin and of
   the need for a mighty spiritual deliverance, [4230] which alone would
   lead to the reception of the Saviour Christ. Hence, as under previous
   similar circumstances, [4231] He would offer them only one sign, that
   of Jonas the prophet. But whereas on the former occasion Christ chiefly
   referred to Jonas' preaching (of repentance), on this He rather pointed
   to the allegorical history of Jonas as the Divine attestation of his
   Mission. As he appeared in Nineveh, he was himself a sign unto the
   Ninevites;' [4232] the fact that he had been three days and nights in
   the whale's belly, and that thence he had, so to speak, been sent forth
   alive to preach in Nineveh, was evidence to them that he had been sent
   of God. And so would it be again. After three days and three nights in
   the heart of the earth' - which is a Hebraism for in the earth' [4233]
   - would His Resurrection Divinely attest to this generation His
   Mission. The Ninevites did not question, but received this attestation
   of Jonas; nay, an authentic report of the wisdom of Solomon had been
   sufficient to bring the Queen of Sheba from so far; in the one case it
   was, because they felt their sin; in the other, because she felt need
   and longing for better wisdom than she possessed. But these were the
   very elements wanting in the men of this generation; and so both
   Nineveh and the Queen of Sheba would stand up, not only as mute
   witnesses against, but to condemn, them. For, the great Reality of
   which the preaching of Jonas had been only the type, and for which the
   wisdom of Solomon had been only the preparation, had been presented to
   them in Christ. [4234]

   5. And so, having put aside this cavil, Jesus returned to His former
   teaching [4235] concerning the Kingdom of Satan and the power of evil;
   only now with application, not, as before, to the individual, but, as
   prompted by a view of the unbelieving resistance of Israel, to the
   Jewish commonwealth as a whole. Here, also, it must be remembered,
   that, as the words used by our Lord were allegorical and illustrative,
   they must not be too closely pressed. As compared with the other
   nations of the world, Israel was like a house from which the demon of
   idolatry had gone out with all his attendants, really the Beel-Zibbul'
   whom they dreaded. And then the house had been swept of all the
   foulness and uncleanness of idolatry, and garnished with all manner of
   Pharisaic adornments. Yet all this while the house was left really
   empty; God was not there; the Stronger One, Who alone could have
   resisted the Strong One, held not rule in it. And so the demon returned
   to it again, to find the house whence he had come out, swept and
   garnished indeed, but also empty and defenceless. The folly of Israel
   lay in this, that they thought of only one demon - him of idolatry -
   Beel-Zibbul, with all his foulness. That was all very repulsive, and
   they had carefully removed it. But they knew that demons were only
   manifestations of demoniac power, and that there was a Kingdom of evil.
   So this house, swept of the foulness of heathenism and adorned with all
   the self-righteousness of Pharisaism, but empty of God, would only
   become a more suitable and more secure habitation of Satan; because,
   from its cleanness and beauty, his presence and rule there as an evil
   spirit would not be suspected. So, to continue the illustrative
   language of Christ, he came back with seven other spirits more wicked
   than himself' - pride, self-righteousness, unbelief, and the like, the
   number seven being general - and thus the last state - Israel without
   the foulness of gross idolatry and garnished with all the adornments of
   Pharisaic devotion to the study and practice of the Law - was really
   worse than had been the first with all its open repulsiveness.

   6. Once more was the Discourse interrupted, this time by a truly Jewish
   incident. A woman in the crowd burst into exclamations about the
   blessedness of the Mother who had borne and nurtured such a Son. [4236]
   The phraseology seems to have been not uncommon, since it is equally
   applied by the Rabbis to Moses, [4237] and even to a great Rabbi.
   [4238] More striking, perhaps, is another Rabbinic passage (previously
   quoted), in which Israel is described as breaking forth into these
   words on beholding the Messiah: Blessed the hour in which Messiah was
   created; blessed the womb whence He issued; blessed the generation that
   sees Him; blessed the eye that is worthy to behold Him.' [4239] [4240]

   And yet such praise must have been peculiarly unwelcome to Christ, as
   being the exaltation of only His Human Personal excellence,
   intellectual or moral. It quite looked away from that which He would
   present: His Work and Mission as the Saviour. Hence it was, although
   from the opposite direction, as great a misunderstanding as the
   Personal depreciation of the Pharisees. Or, to use another
   illustration, this praise of the Christ through His Virgin-Mother was
   as unacceptable and unsuitable as the depreciation of the Christ, which
   really, though unconsciously, underlay the loving care of the
   Virgin-Mother when she would have arrested Him in His Work, [4241] and
   which (perhaps for this very reason) St. Matthew relates in the same
   connection. [4242] Accordingly, the answer in both cases is
   substantially the same: to point away from His merely Human Personality
   to His Work and Mission - in the one case: Whosoever shall do the Will
   of My Father Which is in heaven, the same is My brother, and sister,
   and mother;' in the other: Yea rather, blessed are they that hear the
   Word of God and keep it.' [4243]

   7. And now the Discourse draws to a close [4244] by a fresh application
   of what, in some other form or connection, Christ had taught at the
   outset of His public Ministry in the Sermon on the Mount.' [4245]
   Rightly to understand its present connection, we must pass over the
   various interruptions of Christ's Discourse, and join this as the
   conclusion to the previous part, which contained the main subject. This
   was, that spiritual knowledge presupposed spiritual kinship. [4246]
   Here, as becomes the close of a Discourse, the same truth is
   practically applied in a more popular and plain, one might almost say
   realistic, manner. As here put, it is, that spiritual receptiveness is
   ever the condition of spiritual reception. What was the object of
   lighting a lamp? Surely, that it may give light. But if so, no one
   would put it into a vault, nor under the bushel, but on the stand.
   Should we then expect that God would light the spiritual lamp, if it be
   put in a dark vault? Or, to take an illustration of it from the eye,
   which, as regards the body, serves the same purpose as the lamp in a
   house. Does it not depend on the state of the eye whether or not we
   have the sensation, enjoyment, and benefit of the light? Let us,
   therefore, take care, lest, by placing, as it were, the lamp in a
   vault, the light in us be really only darkness. [4247] On the other
   hand, if by means of a good eye the light is transmitted through the
   whole system - if it is not turned into darkness, like a lamp that is
   put into a vault or under a bushel, instead of being set up to spread
   light through the house - then shall we be wholly full of light. And
   this, finally, explains the reception or rejection of Christ: how, in
   the words of an Apostle, the same Gospel would be both a savour of life
   unto life, and of death unto death.

   It was a blessed lesson with which to close His Discourse, and one full
   of light, if only they had not put it into the vault of their darkened
   hearts. Yet presently would it shine forth again, and give light to
   those whose eyes were opened to receive it; for, according to the
   Divine rule and spiritual order, to him that hath shall be given, and
   from him that hath not shall be taken away even that he hath.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [4194] St. John x. 19.

   [4195] St. John x. 22-39.

   [4196] 28 a.d.

   [4197] 29 a.d.

   [4198] The reasons for his insertion of this part must be sought in the
   character of this Discourse and in the context in St. Matthew's Gospel.

   [4199] St. Luke xi. 14 to xvii. 11.

   [4200] On the characteristics of this Section, Canon Cook has some very
   interesting remarks in the Speaker's Commentary, N.T. vol. i. p. 379.

   [4201] St. John x. 22-42; xi. 1-45; xi. 46-54.

   [4202] The concluding Doxology should be omitted from St. Matthew's
   report of the prayer. As regards the different readings which have been
   adopted into the Revised Version, the reader is advised, before
   accepting the proposed alterations, to consult Canon Cook's judicious
   notes (in the Speaker's Commentary ad loc.).

   [4203] Yoma 76 a, lines 14-16 from top.

   [4204] The same page of the Talmud contains, however, some absurdly
   profane legends about the manna.

   [4205] According to Ps. cxxxvi. 24, 25.

   [4206] Ber. R. 20, ed. Warsh. p. 39 b, last line.

   [4207] Ber. R. 97.

   [4208] Gen. xlviii. 16.

   [4209] Ps. cxiv. 16.

   [4210] St. Luke xi. 1.

   [4211] St. Luke xi. 14.

   [4212] See Book III. ch. xxii.

   [4213] St. Matt. xii. 14.

   [4214] It marks the chronological place of this miracle that it seems
   suitably to follow the popular charge against Jesus, as expressed in
   St. John viii. 48 and x. 20.

   [4215] St. Mark iii. 22; see Book III. ch. xxii.

   [4216] See for example St. Luke xi. 22, 22.

   [4217] St. Matt. xii. 25.

   [4218] vv. 27-30.

   [4219] See the Appendix on Angelology and Demonology.

   [4220] St. Matt. xii. 25-28.

   [4221] Yalkut on Is. lx.

   [4222] See Book II. ch. v., and the Appendix to it, where the passage
   is given in full.

   [4223] v. 29.

   [4224] The reason of the difference between this and the somewhat
   similar passage, St. Luke ix 50, is, that there the relationship is to
   the disciples, here to the Person of the Christ.

   [4225] v. 30.

   [4226] vv. 31, 32.

   [4227] See Book II. ch. xi. vol. i. p. 267.

   [4228] St. Matt. xii. 33-37.

   [4229] St. Matt. xii. 38.

   [4230] ver. 39.

   [4231] St. Matt. xvi. 1-4.

   [4232] St. Luke xi. 30.

   [4233] This is simply a Hebraism of which, as similar instances, may be
   quoted, Exod. xv. 8 (the heart of the sea'); Deut. iv. 11 (the heart of
   heaven'); 2 Sam. xviii. 14 (the heart of the terebinth'). Hence, I
   cannot agree with Dean Plumptre, that the expression heart of the
   earth' bears any reference to Hades.

   [4234] St. Matt. xii. 39-42.

   [4235] vv. 43-45.

   [4236] St. Luke xi. 27.

   [4237] Shem. R. 45.

   [4238] Chag. 14 b.

   [4239] Persiqta, ed. Buber, p. 149 a, last lines.

   [4240] For the full quotation see Book II. ch. v., and the reference to
   it in Appendix IX.

   [4241] See Book III. ch. xxii.

   [4242] St. Matt. xii. 46, 47.

   [4243] In view of such teaching, itis indeed difficult to understand
   the cultus of the Virgin - and even much of that tribute to the
   exclusively human in Christ which is so characteristic of Romanism.

   [4244] St. Luke xi. 33-36.

   [4245] St. Matt. v. 15; vi. 22, 23.

   [4246] See above, page 199 &c.

   [4247] In some measure like the demon who returned to find his house
   empty, swept and garnished.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XII.
THE MORNING-MEAL IN THE PHARISEE'S HOUSE - MEALS AND FEASTS AMONG THE JEWS -
CHRIST'S LAST PERÆAN WARNING TO PHARISAISM

   (St. Luke xi. 37-54.)

   BITTER as was the enmity of the Pharisaic party against Jesus, it had
   not yet so far spread, nor become so avowed, as in every place to
   supersede the ordinary rules of courtesy. It is thus that we explain
   that invitation of a Pharisee to the morning-meal, which furnished the
   occasion for the second recorded Peræan Discourse of Christ. Alike in
   substance and tone, it is a continuation of His former address to the
   Pharisees. And it is probably here inserted in order to mark the
   further development of Christ's anti-Pharisaic teaching. It is the last
   address to the Pharisees, recorded in the Gospel of St. Luke. [4248] A
   similar last appeal is recorded in a much later portion of St.
   Matthew's Gospel, [4249] only that St. Luke reports that spoken in
   Peræa, St. Matthew that made in Jerusalem. This may also partly account
   for the similarity of language in the two Discourses. Not only were the
   circumstances parallel, but the language held at the end [4250] may
   naturally have recurred to the writer, when reporting the last
   controversial Discourse in Peræa. Thus it may well have been, that
   Christ said substantially the same things on both occasions, and yet
   that, in the report of them, some of the later modes of expression may
   have been transferred to the earlier occasion. And because the later
   both represents and presents the fullest anti-Pharisaic Discourse of
   the Saviour, it will be better to postpone our analysis till we reach
   that period of His Life. [4251]

   Some distinctive points, however, must here be noted. The remarks
   already made will explain, how some time may have elapsed between this
   and the former Discourse, and that the expression And as He spake'
   [4252] must not be pressed as a mark of time (referring to the
   immediately preceding Discourse), but rather be regarded as indicating
   the circumstances under which a Pharisee had bidden Him to the meal.
   [4253] Indeed, we can scarcely imagine that, immediately after such a
   charge by the Pharisees as that Jesus acted as the representative of
   Beelzebul, and such a reply on the part of Jesus, a Pharisee would have
   invited Him to a friendly meal, or that Lawyers,' or, to use a modern
   term, Canonists,' would have been present at it. How different their
   feelings were after they had heard His denunciations, appears from the
   bitterness with which they afterwards sought to provoke Him into saying
   what might serve as ground for a criminal charge. [4254] And there is
   absolutely no evidence that, as commentators suggest, the invitation of
   the Pharisee had been hypocritically given, for the purpose of getting
   up an accusation against Christ. More than this, it seems entirely
   inconsistent with the unexpressed astonishment of the Pharisee, when he
   saw Jesus sitting down to food without having first washed hands. Up to
   that moment, then, it would seem that he had only regarded Him as a
   celebrated Rabbi, though perhaps one who taught strange things.

   But what makes it almost certain, that some time must have elapsed
   between this and the previous Discourse (or rather that, as we believe,
   the two events happened in different places), is, that the invitation
   of the Pharisee was to the morning-meal.' [4255] We know that this took
   place early immediately after the return from morning prayers in the
   Synagogue. [4256] It is, therefore, scarcely conceivable, that all that
   is recorded in connection with the first Discourse should have occurred
   before this first meal. On the other hand, it may well have been, that
   what passed at the Pharisee's table may have some connection with
   something that had occurred just before in the Synagogue, for we
   conjecture that it was the Sabbath-day. We infer this from the
   circumstance that the invitation was not to the principal meal, which
   on a Sabbath the Lawyers' (and, indeed, all householders) would, at
   least ordinarily, have in their own homes. [4257] We can picture to
   ourselves the scene. The week-day family-meal was simple enough,
   whether breakfast or dinner - the latter towards evening, although
   sometimes also in the middle of the day, but always before actual
   darkness, in order, as it was expressed, that the sight of the dishes
   by daylight might excite the appetite. [4258] The Babylonian Jews were
   content to make a meal without meat; not so the Palestinians. [4259]
   With the latter the favorite food was young meat: goats, lambs, calves.
   Beef was not so often used, and still more rarely fowls. Bread was
   regarded as the mainstay of life, [4260] without which no entertainment
   was considered as a meal. Indeed, in a sense it constituted the meal.
   For the blessing was spoken over the bread, and this was supposed to
   cover all the rest of the food that followed, such as the meat, fish or
   vegetables - in short, all that made up the dinner, but not the
   dessert. Similarly, the blessing spoken over the wine included all
   other kinds of drink. [4261] Otherwise it would have been necessary to
   pronounce a separate benediction over each different article eaten or
   drunk. He who neglected the prescribed benedictions was regarded as if
   he had eaten of things dedicated to God, [4262] since it was written:
   The earth is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof.' [4263] [4264]
   Beautiful as this principle is, it degenerated into tedious questions
   of casuistry. Thus, if one kind of food was eaten as an addition to
   another, it was settled that the blessing should be spoken only over
   the principal kind. Again, there are elaborate disputations as to what
   should be regarded as fruit, and have the corresponding blessing, and
   how, for example, one blessing should be spoken over the leaves and
   blossom, and another over the berries of the caper. [4265] Indeed, that
   bush gave rise to a serious controversy between the Schools of Hillel
   and Shammai. Another series of elaborate discussions arose, as to what
   blessing should be used when a dish consisted of various ingredients,
   some the product of the earth, others, like honey, derived from the
   animal world. Such and similar disquisitions, giving rise to endless
   argument and controversy, busied the minds of the Pharisees and
   Scribes.

   Let us suppose the guests assembled. To such a morning-meal they would
   not be summoned by slaves, nor be received in such solemn state as at
   feasts. First, each would observe, as a religious rite, the washing of
   hands.' Next, the head of the house would cut a piece from the whole
   loaf - on the Sabbath there were two loaves - and speak the blessing.
   [4266] But this, only if the company reclined at table, as at dinner.
   If they sat, as probably always at the early meal, each would speak the
   benediction for himself. [4267] The same rule applied in regard to the
   wine. Jewish casuistry had it, that one blessing sufficed for the wine
   intended as part of the meal. If other wine were brought in during the
   meal, then each one would have to say the blessing anew over it; if
   after the meal (as was done on Sabbaths and feast-days, to prolong the
   feast by drinking), one of the company spoke the benediction for all.

   At the entertainment of this Pharisee, as indeed generally, our Lord
   omitted the prescribed washing of hands' before the meal. But as this
   rite was in itself indifferent, He must have had some definite object,
   which will be explained in the sequel. The externalism of all these
   practices will best appear from the following account which the Talmud
   gives of a feast.' [4268] As the guests enter, they sit down on chairs,
   and water is brought to them, with which they wash one hand. After this
   the cup is taken, when each speaks the blessing over the wine partaken
   of before dinner. Presently they all lie down at table. Water is again
   brought them, with which they now wash both hands, preparatory to the
   meal, when the blessing is spoken over the bread, and then over the
   cup, by the chief person at the feast, or else by one selected by way
   of distinction. The company responded by Amen, always supposing the
   benediction to have been spoken by an Israelite, not a heathen, slave,
   nor law-breaker. Nor was it lawful to say it with an unlettered man,
   although it might be said with a Cuthæan [4269] (heretic, or else
   Samaritan), who was learned. After dinner the crumbs, if any, are
   carefully gathered - hands are again washed, and he who first had done
   so leads in the prayer of thanksgiving. The formula in which he is to
   call on the rest to join him, by repeating the prayers after him, is
   prescribed, and differs according to the number of those present. The
   blessing and the thanksgiving are allowed to be said not only in
   Hebrew, but in any other language. [4270]

   In regard to the position of the guests, we know that the uppermost
   seats were occupied by the Rabbis. The Talmud formulates it [4271] in
   this manner: That the worthiest lies down first, on his left side, with
   his feet stretching back. If there are two cushions' (divans), the next
   worthiest reclines above him, at his left hand; if there are three
   cushions, the third worthiest lies below him who had lain down first
   (at his right), so that the chief person is in the middle (between the
   worthiest guest at his left and the less worthy one at his right hand).
   The water before eating is first handed to the worthiest, and so in
   regard to the washing after meat. But if a very large number are
   present, you begin after dinner with the least worthy, till you come to
   the last five, when the worthiest in the company washes his hands, and
   the other four after him. [4272] The guests being thus arranged, the
   head of the house, or the chief person at table, speaks the blessing,
   [4273] and then cuts the bread. By some it was not deemed etiquette to
   begin eating till after he who had said the prayer had done so, but
   this does not seem to have been the rule among the Palestinian Jews.
   Then, generally, the bread was dipped into salt, or something salted,
   etiquette demanding that where there were two they should wait one for
   the other, but not where there were three or more.

   This is not the place to furnish what may be termed a list of menus at
   Jewish tables. In earlier times the meal was, no doubt, very simple. It
   became otherwise when intercourse with Rome, Greece, and the East made
   the people familiar with foreign luxury, while commerce supplied its
   requirements. Indeed, it would scarcely be possible to enumerate the
   various articles which seem to have been imported from different, and
   even distant, countries.

   To begin with: the wine was mixed with water, and, indeed, some thought
   that the benediction should not be pronounced till the water had been
   added to the wine. [4274] According to one statement, two parts, [4275]
   according to another, three parts, of water were to be added to the
   wine. [4276] Various vintages are mentioned: among them a red wine of
   Saron, and a black wine. Spiced wine was made with honey and pepper.
   Another mixture, chiefly used for invalids, consisted of old wine,
   water, and balsam; yet another was wine of myrrh;' [4277] we also read
   of a wine in which capers had been soaked. To these we should add wine
   spiced, either with pepper, or with absinthe; and what is described as
   vinegar, a cooling drink made either of grapes that had not ripened, or
   of the lees. Besides these, palm-wine was also in use. Of foreign
   drinks, we read of wine from Ammon, and from the province Asia, the
   latter a kind of must' boiled down. Wine in ice came from the Lebanon;
   a certain kind of vinegar from Idumaea; beer from Media and Babylon; a
   barley-wine (zythos) from Egypt. Finally, we ought to mention
   Palestinian apple-cider, [4278] and the juice of other fruits. If we
   adopt the rendering of some, even liqueurs were known and used.

   Long as this catalogue is, that of the various articles of food,
   whether native or imported, would occupy a much larger space. Suffice
   it that, as regarded the various kinds of grain, meat, fish, and
   fruits. either in their natural state or preserved, it embraced almost
   everything known to the ancient world. At feasts there was an
   introductory course, consisting of appetising salted meat, or of some
   light dish. This was followed by the dinner itself, which finished with
   dessert (Aphiqomon or terugima) consisting of pickled olives, radishes
   and lettuce, and fruits, among which even preserved ginger from India
   is mentioned. [4279] The most diverse and even strange statements are
   made as to the healthiness, or the reverse, of certain articles of
   diet, especially vegetables. Fish was a favorite dish, and never
   wanting at a Sabbath-meal. It was a saying, that both salt and water
   should be used at every meal, if health was to be preserved.
   Condiments, such as mustard or pepper, were to be sparingly used. Very
   different were the meals of the poor. Locusts - fried in flour or
   honey, or preserved - required, according to the Talmud, no blessing,
   since the animal was really among the curses of the land. Eggs were a
   common article of food, and sold in the shops. Then there was a
   milk-dish into which people dipped their bread. Others, who were better
   off, had a soup made of vegetables, especially onions, and meat, while
   the very poor would satisfy the cravings of hunger with bread and
   cheese, or bread and fruit, or some vegetables, such as cucumbers,
   lentils, beans, peas, or onions.

   At meals the rules of etiquette were strictly observed, especially as
   regarded the sages. Indeed, two tractates are added to the Talmud, of
   which the one describes the general etiquette, the other that of
   sages,' and the title of which may be translated by The Way of the
   World' (Derekh Erets), being a sort of code of good manners. According
   to some, it was not good breeding to speak while eating. The learned
   and most honored occupied not only the chief places, but were sometimes
   distinguished by a double portion. According to Jewish etiquette, a
   guest should conform in everything to his host, even though it were
   unpleasant. Although hospitality was the greatest and most prized
   social virtue, which, to use a Rabbinic expression, might make every
   home a sanctuary and every table an altar, an unbidden guest, or a
   guest who brought another guest, was proverbially an unwelcome
   apparition. Sometimes, by way of self-righteousness, the poor were
   brought in, and the best part of the meal ostentatiously given to them.
   At ordinary entertainments, people were to help themselves. It was not
   considered good manners to drink as soon as you were asked, but you
   ought to hold the cup for a little in your hand. But it would be the
   height of rudeness, either to wipe the plates, to scrape together the
   bread, as though you had not had enough to eat, or to drop it, to the
   inconvenience of your neighbour. If a piece were taken out of a dish,
   it must of course not be put back; still less must you offer from your
   cup or plate to your neighbour. From the almost religious value
   attaching to bread, we scarcely wonder that these rules were laid down:
   not to steady a cup or plate upon bread, nor to throw away bread, and
   that after dinner the bread was to be carefully swept together.
   Otherwise, it was thought, demons would sit upon it. The Way of the
   World' for Sages, [4280] lays down these as the marks of a Rabbi: that
   he does not eat standing; that he does not lick his fingers; that he
   sits down only beside his equals - in fact, many regarded it as wrong
   to eat with the unlearned; that he begins cutting the bread where it is
   best baked, nor ever breaks off a bit with his hand; and that, when
   drinking, he turns away his face from the company. Another saying was
   that the sage was known by four things: at his cups, in money matters,
   when angry, and in his jokes. [4281] After dinner, the formalities
   concerning handwashing and prayer, already described, were gone
   through, and then frequently aromatic spices burnt, over which a
   special benediction was pronounced. We have only to add, that on
   Sabbaths it was deemed a religious duty to have three meals, and to
   procure the best that money could obtain, even though one were to save
   and fast for it all the week. Lastly, it was regarded as a special
   obligation and honor to entertain sages.

   We have no difficulty now in understanding what passed at the table of
   the Pharisee. When the water for purification was presented to Him,
   Jesus would either refuse it; or if, as seems more likely at a
   morning-meal, each guest repaired by himself for the prescribed
   purification, He would omit to do so, and sit down to meat without this
   formality. No one, who knows the stress which Pharisaism laid on this
   rite would argue that Jesus might have conformed to the practice.
   [4282] Indeed, the controversy was long and bitter between the Schools
   of Shammai and Hillel, on such a point as whether the hands were to be
   washed before the cup was filled with wine, or after that, and where
   the towel was to be deposited. With such things the most serious ritual
   inferences were connected on both sides. [4283] A religion which spent
   its energy on such trivialities must have lowered the moral tone. All
   the more that Jesus insisted so earnestly, as the substance of His
   Teaching, on that corruption of our nature which Judaism ignored, and
   on that spiritual purification which was needful for the reception of
   His doctrine, would He publicly and openly set aside ordinances of man
   which diverted thoughts of purity into questions of the most childish
   character. On the other hand, we can also understand what bitter
   thoughts must have filled the mind of the Pharisee, whose guest Jesus
   was, when he observed His neglect of the cherished rite. It was an
   insult to himself, a defiance of Jewish Law, a revolt against the most
   cherished tradltions of the Synagogue. Remembering that a Pharisee
   ought not to sit down to a meal with such, he might feel that he should
   not have asked Jesus to his table. All this, as well as the terrible
   contrast between the punctiliousness of Pharisaism in outward
   purifications, and the inward defilement which it never sought to
   remove, must have lain open before Him Who read the inmost secrets of
   the heart, and kindled His holy wrath. Probably taking occasion (as
   previously suggested) from something that had passed before, He spoke
   with the point and emphasis which a last appeal to Pharisaism demanded.

   What our Lord said on this occasion will be considered in detail in
   another place. [4284] Suffice it hear to mark, that He first exposed
   the mere externalism of the Pharisaic law of purification, to the utter
   ignoring of the higher need of inward purity, which lay at the
   foundation of all. [4285] If the primary origin of the ordinance was to
   prevent the eating of sacred offerings in defilement, [4286] were these
   outward offerings not a symbol of the inward sacrifice, and was there
   not an inward defilement as well as the outward? [4287] To consecrate
   what we had to God in His poor, instead of selfishly enjoying it, would
   not, indeed, be a purification of them (for such was not needed), but
   it would, in the truest sense, be to eat God's offerings in cleanness.
   [4288] We mark here a progress and a development, as compared with the
   former occasion when Jesus had publicly spoken on the same subject.
   [4289] Formerly, He had treated the ordinance of the Elders as a matter
   not binding; now, He showed how this externalism militated against
   thoughts of the internal and spiritual. Formerly, He had shown how
   traditionalism came into conflict with the written Law of God: now, how
   it superseded the first principles which underlay that Law. Formerly,
   He had laid down the principle that defilement came not from without
   inwards, but from within outwards; [4290] now, He unfolded this highest
   principle that higher consecration imparted purity.

   The same principle, indeed, would apply to other things, such as to the
   Rabbinic law of tithing. At the same time it may have been, as already
   suggested, that something which had previously taken place, or was the
   subject of conversation at table, had given occasion for the further
   remarks of Christ. [4291] Thus, the Pharisee may have wished to convey
   his rebuke of Christ by referring to the subject of tithing. And such
   covert mode of rebuking was very common among the Jews. It was regarded
   as utterly defiling to eat of that which had not been tithed. Indeed,
   the three distinctions of a Pharisee were: [4292] not to make use nor
   to partake of anything that had not been tithed; to observe the laws of
   purification; and, as a consequence of these two, to abstain from
   familiar intercourse with all non-Pharisees. This separation formed the
   ground of their claim to distinction. [4293] It will be noticed that it
   is exactly to these three things our Lord adverts: so that these
   sayings of His are not, as might seem, unconnected, but in the
   strictest internal relationship. Our Lord shows how Pharisaism, as
   regarded the outer, was connected with the opposite tendency as
   regarded the inner man: outward purification with ignorance of the need
   of that inward purity, which consisted in God-consecration, and with
   the neglect of it; strictness of outward tithing with ignorance and
   neglect of the principle which underlay it, viz., the acknowledgment of
   God's right over mind and heart (judgment and the love of God); while,
   lastly, the Pharisaic pretence of separation, and consequent claim to
   distinction, issued only in pride and self-assertion. Thus, tried by
   its own tests, Pharisaism [4294] terribly failed. It was hypocrisy,
   although that word was not mentioned till afterwards; [4295] [4296] and
   that both negatively and positively: the concealment of what it was,
   and the pretension to what it was not. And the Pharisaism which
   pretended to the highest purity, was, really, the greatest impurity -
   the defilement of graves, only covered up, not to be seen of men!

   It was at this point that one of the Scribes' at table broke in.
   Remembering in what contempt some of the learned held the ignorant
   bigotry of the Pharisees, [4297] we can understand that he might have
   listened with secret enjoyment to denunciations of their folly.' As the
   common saying had it, the silly pietist,' a woman Pharisee,' and the
   (self-inflicted) blows of Pharisaism,' were among the plagues of life.
   [4298] And we cannot help feeling, that there is sometimes a touch of
   quiet humour in the accounts which the Rabbis give of the encounters
   between the Pharisees and their opponents. [4299] But, as the Scribe
   rightly remarked, by attacking, not merely their practice, but their
   principles, the whole system of traditionalism, which they represented,
   was condemned. [4300] And so the Lord assuredly meant it. The Scribes'
   were the exponents of the traditional law; those who bound and loosed
   in Israel. They did bind on heavy burdens, but they never loosed one;
   all those grievous burdens of traditionalism they laid on the poor
   people, but not the slightest effort did they make to remove any of
   them. [4301] Tradition, yes! the very profession of it bore witness
   against them. Tradition, the ordinances that had come down - they would
   not reform nor put aside anything, but claim and proclaim all that had
   come down from the fathers as a sacred inheritance to which they clung.
   So be it! let them be judged by their own words. The fathers had
   murdered the prophets, and they built their sepulchres; that, also, was
   a tradition - that of guilt which would be avenged. Tradition,
   learning, exclusiveness - alas! it was only taking away from the poor
   the key of knowledge; and while they themselves entered not by the
   door' into the Kingdom, they hindered those who would have gone in. And
   truly so did they prove that theirs was the inheritance, the
   tradition,' of guilt in hindering and banishing the Divine teaching of
   old, and murdering its Divine messengers. [4302]

   There was a terrible truth and solemnity in what Jesus spake, and in
   the Woe which He denounced on them. The history of the next few months
   would bear witness how truly they had taken upon them this tradition of
   guilt; and all the after-history of Israel shows how fully this Woe'
   has come upon them. But, after such denunciations, the entertainment in
   the Pharisee's house must have been broken up. The Christ was too
   terribly in earnest - too mournfully so over those whom they hindered
   from entering the Kingdom, to bear with the awful guilt of their
   trivialities. With what feelings they parted from Him, appears from the
   sequel.


   And when He was come out from thence, the Scribes and the Pharisees
   began to press upon Him vehemently, and to provoke Him to speak of many
   things; laying wait for Him, to catch something out of His Mouth.'
   [4303]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [4248] Even St. Luke xx. 45-47 is not an exception. Christ, indeed,
   often afterwards answered their questions, but this is His last formal
   address to the Pharisees.

   [4249] St. Matt. xxiii.

   [4250] St. Matt. xxiii.

   [4251] See the remarks on St. Luke xi. 39-52 in our analysis of St.
   Matt. xxiii. in chap. iv. of Book V.

   [4252] St. Luke xi. 37.

   [4253] The expression one of the Lawyers' (ver. 45) seems to imply that
   there were several at table.

   [4254] St. Luke xi. 53, 54.

   [4255] Not to dine' as in the A.V. Although in later Greek the word
   riston was used for prandium, yet its original meaning as breakfast'
   seems fixed by St. Luke xiv. 12, riston         depnon.

   [4256] {hebrew}, of which the German Morgenbrot is a literal rendering.
   To take the first meal later in the day was deemed very unwholesome:
   like throwing a stone into a skin.'

   [4257] On the sacredness of the duty of hospitality, see Sketches of
   Jewish Social Life,' pp. 47-49.

   [4258] Yoma 74 b.

   [4259] Bezeh 16 a.

   [4260] As always in the East, there were many kinds of bakemeat, from
   the coarse barley-bread or rice-cake to the finest pastry. We read even
   of a kind of biscuit, imported from India (the Teritha, Ber. 37 b).

   [4261] Ber. 41 b.

   [4262] Ber. 35 a.

   [4263] Ps. xxiv. 1.

   [4264] So rigid was this, that it was deemed duty to speak a blessing
   over a drink of water, if one was thirsty, Ber. vi. 8.

   [4265] Ber. 36 a.

   [4266] This, also, was matter of controversy, but the Rabbis decided
   that the blessing must first be spoken, and then the loaf cut (Ber. 39
   b).

   [4267] Ber. vi. 6.

   [4268] Ber. 43 a.

   [4269] Ber. 47 b.

   [4270] Ber. 40 b.

   [4271] Ber. 46 b.

   [4272] According to Ber. 46 b, the order in Persia was somewhat
   different. The arrangement indicated in the text is of importance as
   regards the places taken at the Last Supper, when there was a dispute
   among the disciples about the order in which they were to sit (comp.
   pp. 493-495).

   [4273] Tradition ascribes this benediction to Moses on the occasion
   when manna first fell.

   [4274] Ber. vii. 5.

   [4275] Nidd. ii. 7.

   [4276] Pes. 108 b.

   [4277] Mentioned in St. Mark xv. 23.

   [4278] Terum  xi. 2.

   [4279] Comp. Ber. 40-44 passim.

   [4280] Derekh Erets Suta v. and vii.

   [4281] Erub. 65 b.

   [4282] For a full account of the laws concerning the washing of hands
   and the views entertained of the rite, see Book III. ch. xxxi.

   [4283] Ber. 51 b to52 b.

   [4284] In connection with St. Matt. xxiii.

   [4285] St. Luke xi. 39.

   [4286] On the origin and meaning of the ordinance, see Book III. ch.
   xxxi.

   [4287] ver. 40.

   [4288] ver. 41.

   [4289] St. Matt. xv. 1-9.

   [4290] St. Matt. xv. 10, 11.

   [4291] St. Luke xi. 42.

   [4292] On the Pharisees, Sadducees, and Essenes,' see Book III. ch. ii.
   In fact, the fraternity of the Pharisees were bound by these two vows,
   that of tithing, and that in regard to purifications.

   [4293] ver. 43.

   [4294] St. Luke xi. 44. The word Scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites,'
   are an interpolation.

   [4295] St. Luke xii. 1.

   [4296] See previous Note.

   [4297] As to the estimate of the Pharisees, comp. also Sketches of
   Jewish Social Life,' p. 237.

   [4298] Sot. iii. 4.

   [4299] See previous Note.

   [4300] St. Luke xi. 45.

   [4301] ver. 46.

   [4302] vv. 47-52.

   [4303] This is both the correct reading and rendering of St. Luke xi.
   53, 54, as given in the Revised Version.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XIII.
TO THE DISCIPLES - TWO EVENTS AND THEIR MORAL.

   (St. Luke xii. 1 - xiii. 17.)

   The record of Christ's last warning to the Pharisees, and of the
   feelings of murderous hate which it called forth, is followed by a
   summary of Christ's teaching to His disciples. The tone is still that
   of warning, but entirely different from that to the Pharisees. It is a
   warning of sin that threatened, not of judgment that awaited; it was
   for prevention, not in denunciation. That such warnings were most
   seasonable, requires scarcely proof. They were prompted by
   circumstances around. The same teaching, because prompted by the same
   causes, had been mostly delivered, also, on other occasions. Yet there
   are notable, though seemingly slight, divergences, accounted for by the
   difference of the writers or of the circumstances, and which mark the
   independence of the narratives.

   1. The first of these Discourses [4304] naturally connects itself with
   what had passed at the Pharisee's table, an account of which must soon
   have spread. Although the Lord is reported as having addressed the same
   language chiefly to the Twelve when sending them on their first
   Mission, [4305] [4306] we shall presently mark several characteristic
   variations. The address - or so much of it as is reported, probably
   only its summary - is introduced by the following notice of the
   circumstances: In the mean time, when the many thousands of the people
   were gathered together, so that they trode upon each other, He began to
   say to His disciples: "First [above all, {hebrew}], [4307] beware of
   the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy."' There is no need to
   point out the connection between this warning and the denunciation of
   Pharisaism and traditionalism at the Pharisee's table. Although the
   word hypocrisy' had not been spoken there, it was the sum and substance
   of His contention, that Pharisaism, while pretending to what it was
   not, concealed what it was. And it was this which, like leaven,'
   pervaded the whole system of Pharisaism. Not that as individuals they
   were all hypocrites, but that the system was hypocrisy. And here it is
   characteristic of Pharisaism, that Rabbinic Hebrew has not even a word
   equivalent to the term hypocrisy.' The only expression used refers
   either to flattery of, or pretence before men, [4308] not to that
   unconscious hypocrisy towards God which our Lord so truly describes as
   the leaven' that pervaded all the Pharisees said and did. It is against
   this that He warned His disciples - and in this, rather than conscious
   deception, pretence, or flattery, lies the danger of the Church. Our
   common term, unreality,' but partially describes it. Its full meaning
   can only be gathered from Christ's teaching. But what precise term He
   may have used, it is impossible to suggest. [4309]

   After all, hypocrisy was only self-deception. [4310] But, [4311] there
   is nothing covered that shall not be revealed.' Hence, what they had
   said in the darkness would be revealed, and what they had spoken about
   in the store-rooms [4312] would be proclaimed on the housetops. Nor
   should fear influence them. [4313] Fear of whom? Man could only kill
   the body, but God held body and soul. And, as fear was foolish, so was
   it needless in view of that wondrous Providence which watched over even
   the meanest of God's creatures. [4314] Rather let them, in the
   impending struggle with the powers of this world, rise to consciousness
   of its full import - how earth's voices would find their echo in
   heaven. And then this contest, what was it! Not only opposition to
   Christ, but, in it inmost essence, blasphemy against the Holy Ghost.
   Therefore, to succumb in that contest, implied the deepest spiritual
   danger. [4315] Nay, but let them not be apprehensive; their
   acknowledgment would be not only in the future; even now, in the hour
   of their danger, would the Holy Ghost help them, and give them an
   answer before their accusers and judges, whoever they might be - Jews
   or Gentiles. Thus, if they fell victims, it would be with the knowledge
   - not by neglect - of their Father; here, there, everywhere, in their
   own hearts, before the Angels, before men, would He give testimony for
   those who were His witnesses. [4316]

   Before proceeding, we briefly mark the differences between this and the
   previous kindred address of Christ, when sending the Apostles on their
   Mission. [4317] There (after certain personal directions), the
   Discourse began [4318] with what it here closes. There it was in the
   form of warning prediction, here in that of comforting reassurance;
   there it was near the beginning, here near the close, of His Ministry.
   Again, as addressed to the Twelve on their Mission, it was followed by
   personal directions and consolations, [4319] and then, transition was
   made to the admonition to dismiss fear, and to speak out publicly what
   had been told them privately. On the other hand, when addressing His
   Peræan disciples, while the same admonition is given, and partly on the
   same grounds, yet, as spoken to disciples rather than to preachers, the
   reference to the similarity of their fate with that of Christ is
   omitted, while, to show the real character of the struggle, an
   admonition is added, which in His Galilean Ministry was given in
   another connection. [4320] Lastly, whereas the Twelve were admonished
   not to fear, and, therefore, to speak openly what they had learned
   privately, the Peræan disciples are forewarned that, although what they
   had spoken together in secret would be dragged into the light of
   greatest publicity, yet they were not to be afraid of the possible
   consequences to themselves.

   2. The second Discourse recorded in this connection was occasioned by a
   request for judicial interposition on the part of Christ. This He
   answered by a Parable, [4321] [4322] which will be explained in
   conjunction with the other Parables of that period. The outcome of this
   Parable, as to the utter uncertainty of this life, and the consequent
   folly of being so careful for this world while neglectful of God, led
   Him to make warning application to His Peræan disciples. [4323] Only
   here the negative injunction that preceded the Parable, beware of
   covetousness,' is, when addressed to the disciples,' carried back to
   its positive underlying principle: to dismiss all anxiety, even for the
   necessaries of life, learning from the birds and the flowers to have
   absolute faith and trust in God, and to labour for only one thing, the
   Kingdom of God. But, even in this, they were not to be careful, but to
   have absolute faith and trust in their Father, Who was well pleased to
   give' them the Kingdom.' [4324]

   With but slight variations the Lord had used the same language, even as
   the same admonition had been needed, at the beginning of His Galilean
   Ministry, in the Sermon on the Mount. [4325] Perhaps we may here, also,
   regard the allusion to the springing flowers as a mark of time. Only,
   whereas in Galilee this would mark the beginning of spring, it would,
   in the more favoured climate of certain parts of Peræa, indicate the
   beginning of December, about the time of the Feast of the Dedication of
   the Temple. More important, perhaps, is it to note, that the expression
   [4326] rendered in the Authorised and Revised Versions, neither be ye
   of doubtful mind,' really means, neither be ye uplifted,' in the sense
   of not aiming, or seeking after great things. [4327] This rendering the
   Greek word (meteorzein) is in accordance with its uniform use in the
   LXX., [4328] and in the Apocrypha; while, on the other hand, it occurs
   in Josephus and Philo, in the sense of being of a doubtful mind.' But
   the context here shows, that the term must refer to the disciples
   coveting great things, since only to this the remark could apply, that
   the Gentile world sought such things, but that our Father knew what was
   really needful for us.

   Of deepest importance is the final consolation, to dismiss all care and
   anxiety, since the Father was pleased to give to this little flock' the
   Kingdom. The expression flood' carries us back to the language which
   Jesus had held ere parting from Jerusalem. [4329] Henceforth this
   designation would mark His people. Even its occurrence fixes this
   Discourse as not a repetition of that which St. Matthew had formerly
   reported, but as spoken after the Jerusalem visit. It designates
   Christ's people in distinction to their ecclesiastical (or outward)
   organisation in a fold,' and marks alike their individuality and their
   conjunction, their need and dependence, and their relation to Him as
   the Good Shepherd.' Small and despised though it be in the eyes of men,
   the little flock' is unspeakably noble, and rich in the gift of the
   Father.

   These admonitions, alike as against covetousness, and as to absolute
   trust and a self-surrender to God, which would count all loss for the
   Kingdom, are finally set forth, alike in their present application and
   their ultimate and permanent principle, in what we regard as the
   concluding part of this Discourse. [4330] Its first sentence:'Sell that
   ye have, and give alms,' which is only recorded by St. Luke, indicates
   not a general principle, but its application to that particular period,
   when the faithful disciple required to follow the Lord, unencumbered by
   worldly cares or possessions. [4331] The general principle underlying
   it is that expressed by St. Paul, [4332] and finally resolves itself
   into this: that the Christian should have as not holding, and use what
   he has not for self nor sin, but for necessity. This conclusion of
   Christ's Discourse, also, confirms the inference that it was delivered
   near the terrible time of the end. Most seasonable would be here the
   repetition - though in slightly different language - of an admonition,
   given in the beginning of Christ's Galilean Ministry, [4333] to provide
   treasure in heaven, which could neither fail nor be taken away, for,
   assuredly, where the treasure was, there also would the heart be.

   3. Closely connected with, and yet quite distinct from, the previous
   Discourse is that about the waiting attitude of the disciples in regard
   to their Master. Wholly detached from the things of the world, their
   hearts set on the Kingdom, only one thing should seem worthy their
   whole attention, and engage all their thoughts and energies: their
   Master! He was away at some joyous feast, and the uncertainty of the
   hour of His return must not lead the servants to indulge in surfeiting,
   nor to lie down in idleness, but to be faithful to their trust, and
   eagerly expectant of their Master. The Discourse itself consists of
   three parts and a practical application. itself consists of three parts
   and a practical application.

   1. The Disciples as Servants in the absence of their Master: [4334]
   their duty and their reward. [4335] This part, containing what would be
   so needful to these Peræan disciples, is peculiar to St. Luke. The
   Master is supposed to be absent, at a wedding, a figure which must not
   be closely pressed, not being one of the essentials in the Parable. At
   most, it points to a joyous occasion, and its mention may chiefly
   indicate that such a feast might be protracted, so that the exact time
   of the Master's return could not be known to the servants who waited at
   home. In these circumstances, they should hold themselves in readiness,
   that, whatever hour it might be, they should be able to open the door
   at the first knocking. Such eagerness and devotion of service would
   naturally meet its reward, and the Master would, in turn, consult the
   comfort of those who had not allowed themselves their evening-meal, nor
   lain down, but watched for His return. Hungry and weary as they were
   from their zeal for Him, He would now, in turn, minister to their
   personal comfort. And this applied to servants who so watched - it
   mattered not how long, whether into the second or the third of the
   watches into which the night was divided. [4336]

   The Parable' now passes into another aspect of the case, which is again
   referred to in the last Discourses of Christ. [4337] Conversely -
   suppose the other case, of people sleeping: the house might be broken
   into. Of course, if one had known the hour when the thief would come,
   sleep would not have been indulged in; but it is just this uncertainty
   and suddenness - and the Coming of the Christ into His Kingdom would be
   equally sudden - which should keep the people in the house ever on
   their watch till Christ came. [4338]

   It was at this particular point that a question of Peter interrupted
   the Discourse of Christ. To whom did this Parable' apply about the good
   man' and the servants' who were to watch: to the Apostles, or also to
   all? From the implied - for it is not an express - answer of the Lord,
   we infer, that Peter expected some difference between the Apostles and
   the rest of the disciples, whether as regarded the attitude of the
   servants that waited, or the reward. From the words of Christ the
   former seems the more likely. We can understand how Peter might
   entertain the Jewish notion, that the Apostles would come with the
   Master from the marriage-supper, rather than wait for His return, and
   work while waiting. It is to this that the reply of Christ refers. If
   the Apostles or others are rulers, it is as stewards, and their reward
   of faithful and wise stewardship will be advance to higher
   administration. But as stewards they are servants - servants of Christ,
   and ministering servants in regard to the other and general servants.
   What becomes them in this twofold capacity is faithfulness to the
   absent, yet ever near, Lord, and to their work, avoiding, on the one
   hand, the masterfulness of pride and of harshness, and, on the other,
   the self-degradation of conformity to evil manners, either of which
   would entail sudden and condign punishment in the sudden and righteous
   reckoning at His appearing. The Parable,' therefore, alike as to the
   waiting and the reckoning, applied to work for Christ, as well as to
   personal relationship towards Him.

   Thus far this solemn warning would naturally be afterwards repeated in
   Christ's Last Discourses in Judæa, as equally needful, in view of His
   near departure. [4339] But in this Peræan Discourse, as reported by St.
   Luke, there now follows what must be regarded, not, indeed, as a
   further answer to Peter's inquiry, but as specifically referring to the
   general question of the relation between special work and general
   discipleship which had been raised. For, in one sense, all disciples
   are servants, not only to wait, but to work. As regarded those who,
   like the professed stewards or labourers, knew their work, but neither
   made ready,' [4340] nor did according to His Will, their punishment and
   loss (where the illustrative figure of many' and few stripes' must not
   be too closely pressed) would naturally be greater than that of them
   who knew not, though this also involves guilt, that their Lord had any
   will towards them, that is, any work for them. This, according to a
   well-understood principle, universally, almost instinctively, acted
   upon among men. [4341]

   2. In the absence of their master! A period this of work, as well as of
   waiting; a period of trial also. [4342] Here, also, the two opening
   verses, in their evident connection with the subject-matter under the
   first head of this Discourse, [4343] but especially with the closing
   sentences about work for the Master, are peculiar to St. Luke's
   narrative, and fit only into it. The Church had a work to do in His
   absence - the work for which He had come. He came to cast fire on
   earth,' -  that fire which was kindled when the Risen Saviour sent the
   Holy Ghost, and of which the tongues of fire were the symbol. [4344]
   Oh, how He longed, [4345] that it were already kindled! But between Him
   and it lay the cold flood of His Passion, the terrible Passion in which
   He was to be baptized. Oh, how He felt the burden of that coming Agony!
   [4346] That fire must they spread: this was the work in which, as
   disciples, each one must take part. Again, in that Baptismal Agony of
   His they also must be prepared to share. It was fire: burning up, as
   well as purifying and giving light. And here it was in place to repeat
   to His Peræan disciples the prediction already addressed to the Twelve
   when going on their Mission, [4347] as to the certain and necessary
   trials connected with carrying the fire' which Christ had cast on
   earth, even to the burning up of the closest bonds of association and
   kinship. [4348]

   3. Thus far to the disciples. And now for its application to the
   multitudes' [4349] - although here also He could only repeat what on a
   former occasion He had said to the Pharisees. [4350] Let them not think
   that all this only concerned the disciples. No; it was a question
   between Israel and their Messiah, and the struggle would involve the
   widest consequences, alike to the people and the Sanctuary. Were they
   so blinded as not to know how to interpret the time'? [4351] Could they
   not read its signs - they who had no difficulty in interpreting it when
   a cloud rose from the sea, or the sirocco blew from the south? [4352]
   Why then - and here St. Luke is again alone in his report [4353] - did
   they not, in the circumstances, of themselves judge what was right and
   fitting and necessary, in view of the gathering tempest?

   What was it? Even that he had told them before in Galilee, [4354] for
   the circumstances were the same. What common sense and common prudence
   would dictate to every one whom his accuser or creditor hauled before
   the magistrate: to come to an agreement with him before it was too
   late, before sentence had been pronounced and executed. [4355] Although
   the illustration must not be pressed as to details, its general meaning
   would be the more readily understood that there was a similar Rabbinic
   proverb, [4356] although with very different practical application.

   4. Besides these Discourses, two events are recorded before Christ's
   departure to the Feast of the Dedication.' Each of these led to a brief
   Discourse, ending in a Parable.

   The first records two circumstances not mentioned by the Jewish
   historian Josephus, [4357] nor in any other historical notice of the
   time, either by Rabbinic or other writers. This shows, on the one hand,
   how terribly common such events must have been, when they could be so
   generally omitted from the long catalogue of Pilate's misdeeds towards
   the Jews. On the other hand it also evidences that the narrative of St.
   Luke was derived from independent, authentic sources - in other words,
   the historical character of his narrative - when he could refer as well
   known to facts, which are not mentioned in any other record of the
   times; and, lastly, that we are not warranted in rejecting a notice,
   simply because we find no other mention of it than on the pages of the
   Third Gospel.

   It appears that, just then, or quite soon afterwards, some persons told
   Christ about a number of His own Galileans, whom Pilate had ordered to
   be cut down, as we infer, in the Temple, while engaged in offering
   their sacrifices, [4358] so that, in the pictorial language of the
   East, their blood had mingled with that of their sacrifices. Clearly,
   their narration of this event must be connected with the preceding
   Discourse of Jesus. He had asked them, whether they could not discern
   the signs of the terrible national storm that was nearing. And it was
   in reference to this, as we judge, that they repeated this story. To
   understand their object, we must attend to the answer of Christ. It is
   intended to refute the idea, that these Galileans had in this been
   visited by a special punishment of some special sin against God. Two
   questions here arise. Since between Christ's visit to Jerusalem at the
   Feast of Tabernacles and that at the Dedication of the Temple no
   Festival took place, it is most probable that this event had happened
   before Christ's visit to Jerusalem. But in that case it seems most
   likely - almost certain - that Christ had heard of it before. If so,
   or, at any rate, if it was not quite a recent event, why did these men
   tell Him of it then and there? Again, it seems strange that, although
   the Jews connected special sins with special punishments, they should
   have regarded it as the Divine punishment of a special sin to have been
   martyred by a Pilate in the Temple, while engaged in offering
   sacrifices.

   All this becomes quite plain, if we regard these men as trying to turn
   the edge of Jesus' warning by a kind of Tu quoque' argument. Very
   probably these Galileans were thus ruthlessly murdered, because of
   their real or suspected connection with the Nationalist movement, of
   which Galilee was the focus. It is as if these Jews had said to Jesus:
   Yes, signs of the times and of the coming storm! These Galileans of
   yours, your own countrymen, involved in a kind of Pseudo-Messianic
   movement, a kind of signs of the times' rising, something like that
   towards which you want us to look - was not their death a condign
   punishment? This latter inference they did not express in words, but
   implied in their narration of the fact. But the Lord read their
   thoughts and refuted their reasoning. For this purpose He adduced
   another instance, [4359] when a tower at the Siloam-Pool had fallen on
   eighteen persons and killed them, perhaps in connection with that
   construction of an aqueduct into Jerusalem by Pilate, which called
   forth, on the part of the Jews, the violent opposition, which the Roman
   so terribly avenged. As good Jews, they would probably think that the
   fall of the tower, which had buried in its ruins these eighteen
   persons, who were perhaps engaged in the building of that cursed
   structure, was a just judgment of God! For Pilate had used for it the
   sacred money which had been devoted to Temple-purposes (the Qorban),
   [4360] and many there were who perished in the tumult caused by the
   Jewish resistance to this act of profanation. But Christ argued, that
   it was as wrong to infer that Divine-judgment had overtaken His
   Galilean countrymen, as it would be to judge that the Tower of Siloam
   had fallen to punish these Jerusalemites. Not one party only, nor
   another; not the supposed Messianic tendency (in the shape of a
   national rising), nor, on the other hand, the opposite direction of
   absolute submission to Roman domination, was in fault. The whole nation
   was guilty; and the coming storm, to the signs of which He had pointed,
   would destroy all unless there were spiritual repentance on the part of
   the nation. And yet wider than this, and applying to all time, is the
   underlying principle, that, when a calamity befalls a district or an
   aggregation of individuals, we ought not to take to ourselves judgment
   as to its special causation, but to think spiritually of its general
   application - not so much seek to trace what is the character of its
   connection with a district or individuals, as to learn its lessons and
   to regard them as a call addressed to all. And conversely, also, this
   holds true in regard to deliverances.

   Having thus answered the implied objection, the Lord next showed, in
   the Parable of the Fig-tree, [4361] the need and urgency of national
   repentance. [4362]

   The second event recorded by St. Luke in this connection [4363] recalls
   the incidents of the early Judæan [4364] and of the Galilean Ministry.
   [4365] We observe the same narrow views and externalism as before in
   regard to the Sabbath on the part of the Jewish authorities, and, on
   the part of Christ, the same wide principles and spiritual application.
   If we were in search of evidence of the Divine Mission of Jesus, we
   would find it in this contrariety on so fundamental a point, since no
   teacher in Israel nor Reformer of that time - not the most advanced
   Sadducee - would have defended, far less originated, the views as to
   the Sabbath which Christ now propounded. [4366] Again, if we were in
   quest of evidence of the historical truthfulness of the
   Gospel-narratives, we would find it in a comparison of the narratives
   of the three Sabbath-controversies: in Jerusalem, in Galilee, and in
   Peræa. In all the spirit was the same. And, although the differences
   between them may seem slight, they are characteristic, and mark, as if
   they pointed to it with the finger, the locality and circumstances in
   which each took place. In Jerusalem there is neither reasoning nor
   rebuke on the part of the Jews, but absolute persecution. There also
   the Lord enters on the higher exposition of His action, motives, and
   Mission. [4367] In Galilee there is questioning, and cunning intrigue
   against Him on the part of the Judæans who dogged His steps. But while
   no violence can be attempted against Him, the people do not venture
   openly to take His part. [4368] But in Peræa we are confronted by the
   clumsy zeal of a country-Archisynagogos (Chief Ruler of a Synagogue),
   who is very angry, but not very wise; who admits Christ's healing
   power, and does not dare to attack Him directly, but, instead, rebukes,
   not Christ, not even the woman who had been healed, but the people who
   witnessed it, at the same time telling them to come for healing on
   other days, not perceiving, in his narrow-minded bigotry, what this
   admission implied. This rustic Ruler had not the cunning, nor even the
   courage, of the Judæan Pharisees in Galilee, whom the Lord had formerly
   convicted and silenced. Enough, to show this obscure Peræan partisan of
   Pharisaism and the like of him their utter folly, and that by their own
   admissions. [4369] And presently, not only were His adversaries
   ashamed, while in Galilee they went out and held a council against Him,
   [4370] but the people were not afraid, as the Galileans had been in
   presence of their rulers, and openly rejoiced in the glorious working
   of the Christ.

   Little more requires to be added about this incident in one of the
   Synagogues' of Peræa. Let us only briefly recall the scene. Among those
   present in this Synagogue had been a poor woman, who for eighteen years
   had been a sufferer, as we learn, through demoniac agency. It is quite
   true that most, if not all, such diseases were connected with moral
   distemper, since demoniac possession was not permanent, and resistance
   might have been made in the lucid intervals, if there had been moral
   soundness. But it is ungrounded to distinguish between the spirit of
   infirmity' as the moral and psychical, and her being bent,' as
   indicating the physical disease, [4371] or even to describe the latter
   as a permanent curvature of the spine.' [4372] The Greek word here
   rendered infirmity' has passed into Rabbinic language (Isteniseyah,
   {hebrew}), and there means, not any particular disease, but sickliness,
   sometimes weakliness. In fact, she was, both physically and morally,
   not sick, but sickly, and most truly was hers a spirit of infirmity,'
   so that she was bowed together, and could in no wise lift herself up.'
   For, we mark that hers was not demoniac possession at all - and yet,
   though she had not yielded, she had not effectually resisted, and so
   she was bound' by a spirit of infirmity,' both in body and soul.

   We recognise the same spirit of infirmity' in the circumstances of her
   healing. When Christ, seeing her - probably a fit symbol of the Peræans
   in that Synagogue - called her, she came; when He said unto her, Woman,
   thou hast been loosed [4373] from thy sickliness,' she was unbound, and
   yet in her weakliness she answered not, nor straightened herself, till
   Jesus laid His Hands on her,' and so strengthened her in body and soul,
   and then she was immediately made straight, and glorified God.'

   As for the Archisynagogos, we have, as already hinted, such
   characteristic portraiture of him that we can almost see him: confused,
   irresolute, perplexed, and very angry, bustling forward and scolding
   the people who had done nothing, yet not venturing to silence the
   woman, now no longer infirm - far less, to reprove the great Rabbi, Who
   had just done such a glorious thing,' but speaking at Him through those
   who had been the astounded eye-witnesses. He was easily and effectually
   silenced, and all who sympathised with him put to shame. Hypocrites!'
   spake the Lord - on your own admisions your practice and your Law
   condemn your speech. Every one on the Sabbath looseth his ox or ass,
   and leads him to the watering. The Rabbinic law expressly allowed this,
   [4374] and even to draw the water, provided the vessel were not carried
   to the animal. [4375] If, as you admit, I have the power of loosing'
   from the bonds of Satan, and she has been so bound these eighteen
   years, should she - a daughter of Abraham - not have that done for her
   which you do for your beasts of burden?

   The retort was unanswerable and irresistible; it did what was intended:
   it covered the adversaries with shame. And the Peræans in that
   Synagogue felt also, at least for the time, the blessed freedom which
   had come to that woman. They took up the echoes of her hymn of praise,
   and rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by Him.' And He
   answered their joy by rightly directing it - by setting before them the
   Kingdom,' which He had come both to preach and to bring, in all its
   freeness, reality, power, and all-pervading energy, as exhibited in the
   two Parables of the Mustard-seed' and the Leaven,' spoken before in
   Galilee. These were now repeated, as specially suited to the
   circumstances: first, to the Miracle they had witnessed; then, to the
   contention that had passed; and, lastly, to their own state of feeling.
   And the practical application of these Parables must have been obvious
   to all.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [4304] St. Luke xii. 1-12.

   [4305] St. Matt. x.

   [4306] With St. Luke xii. 2-9, comp. St. Matt. x. 26-33; with St. Luke
   xii. 10, comp. St. Matt. xii. 31, 32; and with St. Luke xii. 11, 12,
   comp. St. Matt. x. 18-20.

   [4307] I prefer this rendering to that which connects the word first'
   as a mark of time with the previous words.

   [4308] Wünsche goes too far in saying that {hebrew} and {hebrew} are
   only used in the sense of flattering. See Levy, sub verb.

   [4309] The Peshito paraphrases it.

   [4310] St. Luke xii. 2.

   [4311] Thus, and not for,' as in the A.V.

   [4312] St. Luke seems to use tameon in that sense (here and in ver.
   24), St. Matthew in the sense of inner chamber' (St. Matt. vi. 6; xxiv.
   26). In the LXX. it is used chiefly in the latter sense; in the Apocr.
   once in the sense of inner chamber' (Tob. vii. 16), and once in that of
   storeroom' (Ecclus. xxix. 12).

   [4313] ver. 4.

   [4314] vv. 6, 7.

   [4315] vv. 8-10.

   [4316] vv. 11, 12.

   [4317] St. Matt. x.

   [4318] St. Matt. x. 18-20.

   [4319] St. Matt. x. 21-25.

   [4320] St. Luke xii. 10, comp. with St. Matt. xii. 31, 32.

   [4321] Concerning the foolish rich man.

   [4322] St. Luke xii. 16-21.

   [4323] St. Luke xii. 22-34.

   [4324] St. Luke xii. 32.

   [4325] St. Matt. vi. 25-33.

   [4326] St. Luke xii. 29.

   [4327] Comp. Jer. xiv. 5.

   [4328] The word occurs in that sense twenty-five times in the LXX. of
   the old Testament (four times as a noun, thirteen as an adjective,
   eight as a verb), and seven times in the Apocrypha (twice as a verb and
   as an adjective, and three times as a noun). This must fix the N.T.
   usus.

   [4329] St. John x.

   [4330] St. Luke xii. 33, 34.

   [4331] comp. St. Matt. xix. 21.

   [4332] 1 Cor. vii. 30, 31.

   [4333] St. Matt. vi. 19-21.

   [4334] St. Luke xii.

   [4335] vv. 35-38.

   [4336] The first is not mentioned, because it was so early, nor yet the
   fourth, because the feast would scarcely be protracted so long.
   Anciently, the Hebrews counted three night-watches; but afterwards, and
   probably at the time of Christ, they divided the night into four
   watches (see the discussion in Ber. 3 a). The latter arrangement was
   probably introduced from the Romans.

   [4337] St. Matt. xxiv. 43, 44.

   [4338] St. Luke xii. 39, 40.

   [4339] St. Luke xii. 42-46; comp. St. Matt. xxiv. 45-51.

   [4340] So literally.

   [4341] St. Luke xii. 47, 48.

   [4342] St. Luke xii. 49-53.

   [4343] Comp. before, under 1, p. 218.

   [4344] This clause is most important for the interpretation of that
   which precedes it, showing that it cannot be taken in sensu malo. It
   cannot therefore be the fire of judgment' (Plumptre.)

   [4345] Probably, as Wünsche suggests, the {hebrew} or else the {hebrew}
   of the Rabbis.

   [4346] vv. 49-50.

   [4347] St. Matt. x 34-36.

   [4348] St. Luke xii. 51-53.

   [4349] ver. 54

   [4350] St. Matt. xvi. 2, 3.

   [4351] St. Luke xii. 56.

   [4352] The observant reader will notice how characteristic the small
   differences are. Thus, the sirocco would not be expected in Galilee,
   but in Peræa, and in the latter also the first flowers would appear
   much earlier.

   [4353] ver. 57.

   [4354] St. Matt. v. 25, 26.

   [4355] St. Luke xii. 58, 59.

   [4356] Sanh. 95 b. Its import is thus explained: Prépare ta vengence,
   sans que ton ennemi puisse s'en douter (Schuhl, Sent. et. Prov. d.
   Talm. p. 3.)

   [4357] This omission goes far to prove the groundlessness of the charge
   brought by Renan, and lately by Joël (Bl. in d. Relig. Gesch. ii. pp.
   52 &c), that the writings of Josephus have been largely falsified by
   Christian copyists.

   [4358] St. Luke xiii. 1-5.

   [4359] St. Luke xiii. 4.

   [4360] Jos. War. ii. 9. 4.

   [4361] St. Luke xiii. 6-9.

   [4362] For the exposition of this Parable, I refer to that of all the
   Parables of that period.

   [4363] St. Luke xiii. 10-17.

   [4364] St. John v. 16.

   [4365] St. Matt. xii. 9-13.

   [4366] On the Sabbath-Law, see Appendix XVII.

   [4367] St. John v. 16, 17 &c.

   [4368] St. Matt. xii. 1-21.

   [4369] St. Luke xiii. 15, 16.

   [4370] St. Matt. xii. 14.

   [4371] This is the view of Godet, who regards the Thou hast been
   loosed' as referring to the psychical ailment.

   [4372] So Dean Plumptre.

   [4373] So, and not as in the A. V.

   [4374] It was not contrary to the Rabbinic law, as Canon Cook (ad loc.)
   supposes. The rule is quite different from that which applied in St.
   Matt. xii. 11.

   [4375] Erub. 17 b; 20 b.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XIV.
AT THE FEAST OF THE DEDICATION OF THE TEMPLE.

   (St. Luke xiii. 22; St. John x. 22-42.)

   ABOUT two months had passed since Jesus had left Jerusalem after the
   Feast of Tabernacles. Although we must not commit ourselves to such
   calculations, we may here mention the computation which identifies the
   first day of the Feast of Tabernacles of that year [4376] with Thursday
   the 23rd September; the last, the Great Day of the Feast,' with
   Wednesday the 29th; the Octave of the Feast with the 30th September;
   and the Sabbath when the man born blind was healed with the 2nd of
   October. [4377] In that case, the Feast of the Dedication of the
   Temple,' which commenced on the 25th day of Chislev, and lasted eight
   days, would have begun on Wednesday the 1st, and closed on Wednesday
   the 8th December. But, possibly, it may have been a week or two later.
   At that Feast, or about two months after He had quitted the City, we
   find Christ once more in Jerusalem and in the Temple. His journey
   thither seems indicated in the Third Gospel (St. Luke xiii. 22), and is
   at least implied in the opening words with which St. John prefaces his
   narrative of what happened on that occasion. [4378] [4379]

   As we think of it, there seems special fitness - presently to be
   pointed out - in Christ's spending what we regard as the last
   anniversary season of His Birth [4380] in the Temple at that Feast. It
   was not of Biblical origin, but had been instituted by Judas Maccabaeus
   in 164 b.c., when the Temple, which had been desecrated by Antiochus
   Epiphanes, was once more purified, and re-dedicated to the Service of
   Jehovah. [4381] Accordingly, it was designated as the Dedication of the
   Altar.' [4382] Josephus [4383] calls it The Lights,'from one of the
   principal observances at the Feast, though he speaks in hesitating
   language of the origin of the festival as connected with this
   observance, probably because, while he knew, he was ashamed to avow,
   and yet afraid to deny his belief in the Jewish legend connected with
   it. The Jews called it Chanukkah, dedication' or consecration,' and, in
   much the same sense, Enkainia in the Greek of the LXX., [4384] [4385]
   and in the New Testament. During the eight days of the Feast the series
   of Psalms known as at the Hallel [4386] was chanted in the Temple, the
   people responding as at the Feast of Tabernacles. [4387] Other rites
   resembled those of the latter Feast. Thus, originally, the people
   appeared with palm-branches. [4388] This, however, does not seem to
   have been after-wards observed, while another rite, not mentioned in
   the Book of Maccabees - that of illuminating the Temple and private
   houses - became characteristic of the Feast. Thus, the two festivals,
   which indeed are put in juxtaposition in 2 Macc. x. 6, seem to have
   been both externally and internally connected. The Feast of the
   Dedication,' or of Lights,' derived from that of Tabernacles its
   duration of eight days, the chanting of the Hallel, and the practice of
   carrying palm-branches. On the other hand, the rite of the
   Temple-illumination may have passed from the Feast of the Dedication'
   into the observances of that of Tabernacles.' Tradition had it, that,
   when the Temple-Services were restored by Judas Maccabaeus, the oil
   found to have been desecrated. Only one flagon was discovered of that
   which was pure, sealed with the very signet of the High-Priest. The
   supply proved just sufficient to feed for one day the Sacred
   Candlestick, but by a miracle the flagon was continually replenished
   during eight days, till a fresh supply could be brought from Thekoah.
   In memory of this, it was ordered the following year, that the Temple
   be illuminated for eight days on the anniversary of its Dedication.'
   [4389] The Schools of Hillel and Shammai differed in regard to this, as
   on most other observances. The former would have begun the first night
   with the smallest number of lights, and increased it every night till
   on the eighth it was eight times as large as on the first. The School
   of Shammai, on the other hand, would have begun with the largest
   number, and diminished, till on the last night it amounted to an eighth
   of the first. Each party had its own - not very satisfactory - reasons
   for its distinctive practice, and its own adherents. [4390] But the
   Lights' in honour of the Feast were lit not only in the Temple, but in
   every home. One would have sufficed for the whole household on the
   first evening, but pious householders lit a light for every inmate of
   the home, so that, if ten burned on the first, there would be eighty on
   the last night of the Festival. According to the Talmud, the light
   might be placed at the entrance to the house or room, or, according to
   circumstances, in the window, or even on the table. According to modern
   practice the light is placed at the left on entering a room (the
   Mezuzah is on the right). Certain benedictions are spoken on lighting
   these lights, all work is stayed, and the festive time spent in
   merriment. The first night is specially kept in memory of Judith, who
   is supposed then to have slain Holofernes, and cheese is freely
   partaken of as the food of which, according to legend, [4391] she gave
   him so largely, to incite him to thirst and drunkenness. [4392] Lastly,
   during this Festival, all fasting and public mourning were prohibited,
   though some minor acts of private mourning were allowed. [4393]

   More interesting, perhaps, than this description of the outward
   observances is the meaning of this Festival and its connection with the
   Feast of Tabernacles, to both of which reference has already been made.
   Like the Feast of Tabernacles, it commemorated a Divine Victory, which
   again gave to Israel their good land, after they had once more
   undergone sorrows like those of the wilderness; it was another
   harvest-feast, and pointed forward to yet another ingathering. As the
   once extinguished light was relit in the Temple, and, according to
   Scriptural imagery, might that not mean the Light of Israel, the Lamp
   of David? - it grew day by day in brightness, till it shone quite out
   into the heathen darkness, that once had threatened to quench it. That
   He Who purified the Temple, was its True Light, and brought the Great
   Deliverance, should (as hinted) have spent the last anniversary season
   of His Birth at that Feast in the Sanctuary, shining into their
   darkness, seems most fitting, especially as we remember the Jewish
   legend, according to which the making of the Tabernacle had been
   completed on the 25th Chislev, although it was not set up till the 1st
   of Nisan (the Paschal month). [4394]

   Thoughts of the meaning of this Feast, and of what was associated with
   it, will be helpful as we listen to the words which Jesus spake to the
   people in Solomon's Porch.' There is a pictorialness in the description
   of the circumstances, which marks the eyewitness. It is winter, and
   Christ is walking in the covered Porch, [4395] in front of the
   Beautiful Gate,' which formed the principal entrance into the Court of
   the Women.' As he walks up and down, the people are literally barring
   His Way - came round about' Him. From the whole circumstances we cannot
   doubt, that the question which they put: How long holdest Thou us in
   suspense?' had not in it an element of truthfulness or genuine inquiry.
   Their desire, that He should tell them plainly' if He were the Christ,
   had no other motive than that of grounding on it an accusation. [4396]
   The more clearly we perceive this, the more wonderful appears the
   forbearance of Christ and the wisdom of His answer. Briefly he puts
   aside their hypocrisy. What need is there of fresh speech? He told them
   before, and they believe [4397] not.' From words He appeals to the mute
   but indisputable witness of deeds: the works which He wrought in His
   Father's Name. Their non-belief in presence of these facts was due to
   their not being of His Sheep. As he had said unto them before, [4398]
   it was characteristic of His Sheep (as generally of every flock in
   regard to its own shepherd) to hear - recognise, listen to - His Voice
   and follow Him. We mark in the words of Christ, a triplet of double
   parallelisms concerning the Sheep and the Shepherd, in ascending
   climax, [4399] as follows: - [4400]

               My sheep hear My Voice,                                And
   I know them,

   And they follow me:                                          And I give
   unto them eternal life:

   And they shall never perish.                               And no one
   shall snatch them out of My Hand.

    A similar fourfold parallelism with descending and ascending climax,
   but of an antithetic character, has been noticed [4401] in Christ's
   former Discourse in the Temple (St. John x. 13-15) -

               The hireling
           I

   Is an hireling,                                        Am the good
   Shepherd,

   Careth not for the sheep.                                   Know the
   sheep,

   Fleeth
   Lay down My Life.

   Richer or more comforting assurance than that recorded above could not
   have been given. But something special has here to be marked. The two
   first parallelisms always link the promise of Christ to the attitude of
   the sheep; not, perhaps, conditionally, for the relation is such as not
   to admit conditionalness, either in the form of because - therefore,'
   or even of if - then,' but as a matter of sequence and of fact. But in
   the third parallelism there is no reference to anything on the part of
   the sheep; it is all promise, and the second clause only explains and
   intensifies what is expressed in the first. If it indicates attack of
   the fiercest kind and by the strongest and most cunning of enemies, be
   they men or devils, it also marks the watchfulness and absolute
   superiority of Him Who hath them, as it were, in His Hand - perhaps a
   Hebraism for power' - and hence their absolute safety. And, as if to
   carry twofold assurance of it, He reminds His hearers that His Work
   being the Father's Commandment,' it is really the Father's Work, given
   to Christ to do, and no one could snatch them out of the Father's Hand.
   It is a poor cavil, to try to limit these assurances by seeking to
   grasp and to comprehend them in the hollow of our human logic. Do they
   convey what is commonly called the doctrine of perseverance'? Nay! but
   they teach us, not about our faith but about His faithfulness, and
   convey to us assurance concerning Him rather than ourselves; and this
   is the only aspect in which the doctrine of perseverance' is either
   safe, true, or Scriptural.

   But one logical sequence is unavoidable. Rightly understood, it is not
   only the last and highest announcement, but it contains and implies
   everything else. If the Work of Christ is really that of the Father,
   and His Working also that of the Father, then it follows that He and
   the Father are One' (one' is in the neuter). This identity of work (and
   purpose) implies the identity of Nature (Essence); that of working, the
   identity of power. [4402] And so, evidently, the Jews understood it,
   when they again took up stones with the intention of stoning Him - no
   doubt, because He expressed, in yet more plain terms, what they
   regarded as His blasphemy. Once more the Lord appealed from His Words,
   which were doubted, to His Works, which were indubitable. And so He
   does to all time. His Divine Mission is evidence of His Divinity. And
   if His Divine Mission be doubted, He appeals to the many excellent
   works' (kal rga) which He hath showed from the Father,' any one of
   which might, and, in the case of not a few, had, served as evidence of
   His Mission. And when the Jews ignored, as so many in our days, this
   line of evidence, and insisted that He had been guilty of blasphemy,
   since, being a man, He had made Himself God, the Lord replied in a
   manner that calls for our special attention. From the peculiarly
   Hebraistic mode of designating a quotation from the Psalms [4403] as
   written in the Law,' [4404] we gather that we have here a literal
   transcript of the very words of our Lord. [4405] But what we specially
   wish, is, emphatically, to disclaim any interpretation of them, which
   would seem to imply that Christ had wished to evade their inference:
   that He claimed to be One with the Father - and to convey to them, that
   nothing more had been meant than what might lawfully be applied to an
   ordinary man. Such certainly is not the case. He had claimed to be One
   with the Father in work and working: from which, of course, the
   necessary inference was, that He was also One with Him in Nature and
   Power. Let us see whether the claim was strange. In Ps. lxxxii. 6 the
   titles God' (Elohim) and Sons of the Highest' (Beney Elyon) had been
   given to Judges as the Representatives and Vicegerents of God, wielding
   His delegated authority, since to them had come His Word of
   authorisation. But here was authority not transmitted by the word,' but
   personal and direct consecration, and personal and direct Mission on
   the part of God. The comparison made was not with prophets, because
   they only told the word and message from God, but with Judges, who, as
   such, did the very act of God. If those who, in so acting, had received
   an indirect commission, were gods,' the very representatives of God,
   [4406] could it be blasphemy when He claimed to be the Son of God, Who
   had received, not authority through a word transmitted through long
   centuries, but direct personal command to do the Father's Work; had
   been directly and personally consecrated to it by the Father, and
   directly and personally sent by Him, not to say, but to do, the work of
   the Father? Was it not rather the true and necessary inference from
   these premisses?

   All would, of course, depend on this, whether Christ really did the
   works of the Father. [4407] That was the test; and, as we instinctively
   perceive, both rationally and truly. But if He did the works of His
   Father, then let them believe, if not the words yet the works, and thus
   would they arrive at the knowledge, and understand' [4408] -
   distinguishing here the act from the state [4409] - that in Me is the
   Father, and I in the Father.' In other words, recognizing the Work as
   that of the Father, they would come to understand that the father
   worked in Him, and that the root of His Work was in the Father.

   The stones, that had been taken up, were not thrown, for the words of
   Christ rendered impossible the charge of explicit blasphemy which alone
   would, according to Rabbinic law, have warranted such summary
   vengeance. But they sought again to seize Him,' so as to drag Him
   before their tribunal. His time, however, had not yet come, and He went
   forth out of their hand' - how, we know not.

   Once more the Jordan rolled between Him and His bitter persecutors. Far
   north, over against Galilee, in the place of John's early labours,
   probably close to where Jesus Himself had been baptized, was the scene
   of His last labours. And those, who so well remembered both the Baptist
   and the testimony which he had there borne to the Christ, recalled it
   all as they listened to His Words and saw His Works. As they crowded
   around Him, both the difference and the accord between John and Jesus
   carried conviction to their minds. The Baptist had done no sign,'
   [4410] such as those which Jesus wrought: but all things which John had
   spoken of Him, they felt it, were true. And, undisturbed by the cavils
   of Pharisees and Scribes, many of these simple-minded, true-hearted
   men, far away from Jerusalem, believed on Him. To adapt a saying of
   Bengel: they were the posthumous children of the Baptist. Thus did he,
   being dead, yet speak. And so will all that is sown for Christ, though
   it lie buried and forgotten of men, spring up and ripen, as in one day,
   to the deep, grateful, and external joy of them who had laboured in
   faith and gone to rest in hope.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [4376] 28 a.d.

   [4377] Wieseler, Chronolog. Synopse, pp. 482, 483.

   [4378] St. John x. 22.

   [4379] It must, however, be admitted that some commentators draw an
   opposite inference from these words.

   [4380] The subject has been more fully treated in an article in the
   Leisure Hour' for Dec. 1873: Christmas, a Festival of Jewish Origin.'

   [4381] 1 Macc. vi. 52-59.

   [4382] u. s. vv. 56-59.

   [4383] Ant. xii. 7. 7.

   [4384] Ezra vi. 16, 17; Neh. xii. 27; Dan. iii. 2.

   [4385] Similarly, the cognate words nkanisis and nkainisms as well as
   the verb (nkainzo), are frequently used both in the LXX. and the
   Apocrypha. The verb also occurs Heb. ix. 18; x. 20.

   [4386] Ps. cxiii. - cxviii.

   [4387] See ch. vii. This was always the case when the Hallel was
   chanted.

   [4388] 2 Macc. x. 7.

   [4389] Shabb. 21 b, lines 11 to 8 from bottom.

   [4390] Shabb. 21 b, about the middle.

   [4391] In regard to the latter Jewish legend, the learned reader will
   find full quotations (as, in general, much interesting information on
   the Feast of the Dedications') in Selden, de Synedriis (ed. Frcf. 1696)
   p. 1213, and in general from p. 1207 to 1214.

   [4392] The reader will find much that is curious in these four
   Midrashim (apud Jellinek, Beth haMidr. i. pp. 130-146): the Maaseh
   Jehudith, 2 Midr. for Chanukkah, and he Megillath Antiochos. See also
   the Megillath Taanith (ed. Warsh. 1874), pp. 14 a to 15 b.

   [4393] Moed K. iii. 9; Shabb. 21 b.

   [4394] Bemidb. R. 13, ed. Warsh., p. 49 a, line 15 from top.

   [4395] The location of this Porch' in the passage under the present
   mosque El Aksa (proposed by Caspari, Chronol. Geogr. Einleit. p. 256,
   and adopted by Archdeacon Watkins) is contrary to all the well-known
   facts.

   [4396] Commentators mostly take quite a different view, and regard
   their as more or less honest inquiry.

   [4397] According to the better reading, in the present tense.

   [4398] This clause in ver. 26 of the A.V. must, if retained, be joined
   to ver. 27.

   [4399] St. John x. 27, 28.

   [4400] So, after the precedent of Bengel, especially Luthardt and
   Godet, and after them others.

   [4401] By Bengel.

   [4402] St. Augustine marks, that the word one' tells against Arianism,
   and the plural are' against Sabellianism. And do they not equally tell
   against all heresy?

   [4403] Ps. lxxxii. 6.

   [4404] In Rabbinic writings the word for Law (Torah, or Oreya, or
   Oreyan) is very frequently used to denote not only the Law, but the
   whole Bible. Let one example suffice: Blessed be the Merciful Who has
   given the threefold Law ({hebrew}, Pentateuch, Prophets, and
   Hagiographa) to a threefold people (priests, Levites, laity) by the
   hands of a third (Moses, being the third born of his parents) on the
   third day (after the preparation) in the third month (Sivan),' Shabb.
   88 a.

   [4405] We need scarcely call attention to the evidence which it affords
   of the Judæan authorship of the Fourth Gospel.

   [4406] We would call attention to the words The Scripture cannot be
   broken' (ver. 35) as evidential of the views which Jesus took of the
   authority of the Old Testament, as well as of its inspiration.

   [4407] St. John x. 37.

   [4408] Thus, according to the better reading.

   [4409] So Meyer.

   [4410] The circumstance, that, according to the Gospels, no miracle was
   wrought by John, is not only evidential of the trustworthiness of their
   report of our Lord's miracles, but otherwise also deeply significant.
   It shows that there is no craving for the miraculous, as in the
   Apocryphal and legendary narratives, and it proves that the
   Gospel-narratives were not cast in the mould of Jewish contemporary
   expectation, which would certainly have assigned another rôle to Elijah
   as the Forerunner of the Messiah than, first, that of solitary
   testimony, then of forsakenness, and, lastly, of cruel and unavenged
   murder at the hands of a Herodian. Truly, the history of Jesus is not
   that of the Messiah of Judaic conception!
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XV.
THE SECOND SERIES OF PARABLES - THE TWO PARABLES OF HIM WHO IS NEIGHBOUR TO US:
THE FIRST, CONCERNING THE LOVE THAT, UNASKED, GIVES IN OUR NEED; THE SECOND,
CONCERNING THE LOVE WHICH IS ELICITED BY OUR ASKING IN OUR NEED.

   (St. Luke x. 25-37; xi. 5-13.)

   THE period between Christ's return from the Feast of the Dedication'
   and His last entry into Jerusalem, may be arranged into two parts,
   divided by the brief visit to Bethany for the purpose of raising
   Lazarus from the dead. Even if it were possible, with any certainty,
   chronologically to arrange the events of each of these periods, the
   variety and briefness of what is recorded would prevent our closely
   following them in this narrative. Accordingly, we prefer grouping them
   together as the Parables of that period, its Discourses, and its
   Events. And the record of the raising of Lazarus may serve as a
   landmark between our Summary of the Parables and that of the Discourses
   and Events which preceded the Lord's final appearance in Jerusalem.

   These last words help us to understand the necessary difference between
   the Parables of this and of the preceding and the following periods.
   The Parables of this period look back upon the past, and forward into
   the future. Those spoken by the Lake of Galilee were purely symbolical.
   They presented unseen heavenly realities under emblems which required
   to be translated into earthly language. It was quite easy to do so, if
   you possessed the key to the heavenly mysteries; otherwise, they were
   dark and mysterious. So to speak, they were easily read from above
   downwards. Viewed from below upwards, only most dim and strangely
   intertwining outlines could be perceived. It is quite otherwise with
   the second series of Parables. They could, as they were intended, be
   understood by all. They required no translation. They were not
   symbolical but typical, using the word type,' not in the sense of
   involving a predictive element, [4411] but as indicating an example,
   or, perhaps, more correctly, an exemplification. [4412] Accordingly,
   the Parables of this series are also intensely practical. Lastly, their
   prevailing character is not descriptive, but hortatory; and they bring
   the Gospel, in the sense of glad tidings to the lost, most closely and
   touchingly to the hearts of all who hear them. They are signs in words,
   as the miracles are signs in works, of what Christ has come to do and
   to teach. Most of them bear this character openly; and even those which
   do not, but seem more like warning, have still an undertone of love, as
   if Divine compassion lingered in tender pity over that which
   threatened, but might yet be averted.

   Of the Parables of the third series it will for the present suffice to
   say, that they are neither symbolical nor typical, but their prevailing
   characteristic is prophetic. As befits their historical place in the
   teaching of Christ, they point to the near future. They are the fast
   falling, lengthening shadows cast by the events which are near at hand,

   The Parables of the second (or Peræan) series, which are typical and
   hortatory, and Evangelical' in character, are thirteen in number, and,
   with the exception of the last, are either peculiar to, or else most
   fully recorded in, the Gospel by St. Luke.

   1. The Parable of the Good Samaritan. [4413] - This Parable is
   connected with a question, addressed to Jesus by a lawyer' - not one of
   the Jerusalem Scribes or Teachers, but probably an expert in Jewish
   Canon Law, [4414] who possibly made it more or less a profession in
   that district, though perhaps not for gain. Accordingly, there is a
   marked absence of that rancour and malice which characterised his
   colleagues of Judæa. In a previous chapter it has been shown, that this
   narrative probably stands in its proper place in the Gospel of St.
   Luke. [4415] We have also suggested, that the words of this lawyer
   referred, or else that himself belonged, to that small party among the
   Rabbinists who, at least in theory, attached greater value to good
   works than to study. At any rate, there is no occasion to impute
   directly evil motives to him. Knowing the habits of his class, we do
   not wonder that he put his question to tempt' - test, try - the great
   Rabbi of Nazareth. There are many similar instances in Rabbinic
   writings of meetings between great Teachers, when each tried to involve
   the other in dialectic difficulties and subtle disputations. Indeed,
   this was part of Rabbinism, and led to that painful and fatal trifling
   with truth, when everything became matter of dialectic subtlety, and
   nothing was really sacred. What we require to keep in view is, that to
   this lawyer the question which he propounded was only one of theoretic,
   not of practical interest, nor matter of deep personal concern, as it
   was to the rich young ruler, who, not long afterwards, addressed a
   similar inquiry to the Lord. [4416]

   We seem to witness the opening of a regular Rabbinic contest, as we
   listen to this speculative problem: Teacher, what having done shall I
   inherit eternal life?' At the foundation lay the notion, that eternal
   life was the reward of merit, of works: the only question was, what
   these works were to be. The idea of guilt had not entered his mind; he
   had no conception of sin within. It was the old Judaism of
   self-righteousness speaking without disguise: that which was the
   ultimate ground of the rejecting and crucifying of the Christ. There
   certainly was a way in which a man might inherit eternal life, not
   indeed as having absolute claim to it, but (as the Schoolmen might have
   said: de congruo) in consequence of God's Covenant on Sinai. And so our
   Lord, using the common Rabbinic expression what readest thou?'
   ({hebrew}), pointed him to the Scriptures of the Old Testament.

   The reply of the lawyer' is remarkable, not only on its own account,
   but as substantially, and even literally, that given on two other
   occasions by the Lord Himself. [4417] The question therefore naturally
   arises, whence did this lawyer, who certainly had not spiritual
   insight, derive his reply? As regarded the duty of absolute love to
   God, indicated by the quotation of Deut. vi. 5, there could, of course,
   be no hesitation in the mind of a Jew. The primary obligation of this
   is frequently referred to, and, indeed, taken for granted, in Rabbinic
   teaching. The repetition of this command, which in the Talmud receives
   the most elaborate and strange interpretation, [4418] formed part of
   the daily prayers. When Jesus referred the lawyer to the Scriptures, he
   could scarcely fail to quote this first paramount obligation.
   Similarly, he spoke as a Rabbinic lawyer, when he referred in the next
   place to love to our neighbour, as enjoined in Lev. xix. 18. Rabbinism
   is never weary of quoting as one of the characteristic sayings of its
   greatest teacher, Hillel (who, of course, lived before this time), that
   he had summed up the Law, in briefest compass, in these words: What is
   hateful to thee, that do not to another. This is the whole Law; the
   rest is only its explanation.' [4419] Similarly, Rabbi Akiba taught,
   that Lev. xix. 18 was the principal rule, we might almost say, the
   chief summary of the Law ({hebrew}). [4420] Still, the two principles
   just mentioned are not enunciated in conjunction by Rabbinism, nor
   seriously propounded as either containing the whole Law or as securing
   heaven. They are also, as we shall presently see, subjected to grave
   modifications. One of these, as regards the negative form in which
   Hillel put it, while Christ put it positively, [4421] [4422] has been
   previously noticed. The existence of such Rabbinic modifications, and
   the circumstance, already mentioned, that on two other occasions the
   answer of Christ Himself to a similar inquiry was precisely that of
   this lawyer, suggests the inference, that this question may have been
   occasioned by some teaching of Christ, to which they had just listened,
   and that the reply of the lawyer may have been prompted by what Jesus
   had preached concerning the Law.

   If it be asked, why Christ seemed to give His assent to the lawyer's
   answer, as if it really pointed to the right solution of the great
   question, we reply: No other answer could have been given him. On the
   ground of works - if that had been tenable - this was the way to
   heaven. To understand any other answer, would have required a sense of
   sin; and this could not be imparted by reasoning: it must be
   experienced. It is the preaching of the Law which awakens in the mind a
   sense of sin. [4423] Besides, if not morally, yet mentally, the
   difficulty of this way' would soon suggest itself to a Jew. Such, at
   least, is one aspect of the counter-question with which the lawyer' now
   sought to retort on Jesus.

   Whatever complexity of motives there may have been - for we know
   nothing of the circumstances, and there may have been that in the
   conduct or heart of the lawyer which was specially touched by what had
   just passed - there can be no doubt as to the maiu object of his
   question: But who is my neighbour?' He wished to justify himself,' in
   the sense of vindicating his original question, and showing that it was
   not quite so easily settled as the answer of Jesus seemed to imply. And
   here it was that Christ could in a Parable' show how far orthodox
   Judaism was from even a true understanding, much more from such perfect
   observance of this Law as would gain heaven. Thus might He bring even
   this man to feel his shortcomings and sins, and awaken in him a sense
   of his great need. This, of course, would be the negative aspect of
   this Parable; the positive is to all time and to all men.

   That question: Who is my neighbour?' has ever been at the same time the
   outcome of Judaism (as distinguished from the religion of the Old
   Testament), and also its curse. On this point it is duty to speak
   plainly, even in face of the wicked persecutions to which the Jews have
   been exposed on account of it. Whatever modern Judaism may say to the
   contrary, there is a foundation of truth in the ancient heathen charge
   against the Jews of odium generis humani (hatred of mankind). God had
   separated Israel unto Himself by purification and renovation - and this
   is the original meaning of the word holy' and sanctify' in the Hebrew
   ({hebrew}). They separated themselves in self-righteousness and pride -
   and that is the original meaning of the word Pharisee' and Pharisaism'
   ({hebrew}). In so saying no blame is cast on individuals; it is the
   system which is at fault. This question: Who is my neighbour?'
   frequently engages Rabbinism. The answer to it is only too clear. If a
   hypercriticism were to interpret away the passage [4424] which directs
   that idolators are not to be delivered when in imminent danger, while
   heretics and apostates are even to be led into it, the painful
   discussion on the meaning of Exod. xxiii. 5 [4425] would place it
   beyond question. The sum of it is, that, except to avert hostility, a
   burden is only to be unloaded, if the beast that lieth under it
   belongeth to an Israelite, not if it belong to a Gentile; and so the
   expression, [4426] the ass of him that hateth thee,' must be understood
   of a Jewish, and not of a Gentile enemy ({hebrew}). [4427]

   It is needless to follow the subject further. But more complete rebuke
   of Judaistic narrowness, as well as more full, generous, and spiritual
   world-teaching than that of Christ's Parable could not be imagined. The
   scenery and colouring are purely local. And here we should remember,
   that, while admitting the lawfulness of the widest application of
   details for homiletical purposes, we must take care not to press them
   in a strictly exegetical interpretation. [4428]

   Some one coming from the Holy City, the Metropolis of Judaism, is
   pursuing the solitary desert-road, those twenty-one miles to Jericho, a
   district notoriously insecure, when he fell among robbers, who, having
   both stripped and inflicted on him strokes, went away leaving him just
   as he was, [4429] half dead.' This is the first scene. The second opens
   with an expression which, theologically, as well as exegetically, is of
   the greatest interest. The word rendered by chance' (sunkura) occurs
   only in this place, [4430] for Scripture commonly views matters in
   relation to agents rather than to results. As already noted, [4431] the
   real meaning of the word is concurrence,' much like the corresponding
   Hebrew term ({hebrew}). And better definition could not be given, not,
   indeed, of Providence,' which is a heathen abstraction for which the
   Bible has no equivalent, but for the concrete reality of God's
   providing. He provides through a concurrence of circumstances, all in
   themselves natural and in the succession of ordinary causation (and
   this distinguishes it from the miracle), but the concurring of which is
   directed and overruled by Him. And this helps us to put aside those
   coarse tests of the reality of prayer and of the direct rule of God,
   which men sometimes propose. Such stately ships ride not in such
   shallow waters.

   It was by such a concurrence,' that, first a priest, then a Levite came
   down that road, when each, successively, when he saw him, passed by
   over against (him).' It was the principle of questioning, Who is my
   neighbour?' which led both priest and Levite to such heartless conduct.
   Who knew what this wounded man was, and how he came to lie there: and
   were they called upon, in ignorance of this, to take all the trouble,
   perhaps incur the risk of life, which care of him would involve? Thus
   Judaism (in the persons of its chief representatives) had, by its
   exclusive attention to the letter, come to destroy the spirit of the
   Law. Happily, there came yet another that way, not only a stranger, but
   one despised, a semi-heathen Samaritan. [4432] He asked not who the man
   was, but what was his need. Whatever the wounded Jew might have felt
   towards him, the Samaritan proved a true neighbour.' He came towards
   him, and beholding him, he was moved with compassion.' His resolution
   was soon taken. He first bound up his wounds, and then, taking from his
   travelling provision wine and oil, made of them, what was regarded as
   the common dressing for wounds. [4433] Next, having set' (lifted) him
   on his own beast, he walked by his side, and brought him to one of
   those houses of rest and entertainment, whose designation (pandocheon)
   has passed into Rabbinic language ({hebrew}). These khans, or
   hostelries, by the side of unfrequented roads, afforded free lodgment
   to the traveller. But generally they also offered entertainment, in
   which case, of course, the host, commonly a non-Israelite, charged for
   the victuals supplied to man or beast, or for the care taken. In the
   present instance the Samaritan seems himself to have tended the wounded
   man all that evening. But even thus his care did not end. The next
   morning, before continuing his journey, he gave to the host two dinars
   - about one shilling and threepence of our money, the amount of a
   labourer's wages for two days, [4434] - as it were, two days' wages for
   his care of him, with this provision, that if any further expense were
   incurred, either because the wounded man was not sufficiently recovered
   to travel, or else because something more had been supplied to him, the
   Good Samaritan would pay it when he next came that way.

   So far the Parable: its lesson the lawyer' is made himself to
   enunciate. Which of these three seems to thee to have become neighbour
   of him that fell among the robbers?' Though unwilling to take the hated
   name of Samaritan on his lips, especially as the meaning of the Parable
   and its anti-Rabbinic bearing were so evident, the lawyer' was obliged
   to reply, He that showed mercy on him,' when the Saviour finally
   answered, Go, and do thou likewise.'

   Some further lessons may be drawn. The Parable implies not a mere
   enlargement of the Jewish ideas, but a complete change of them. It is
   truly a Gospel-Parable, for the whole old relationship of mere duty is
   changed into one of love. Thus, matters are placed on an entirely
   different basis from that of Judaism. The question now is not Who is my
   neighbour?' but Whose neighbour am I?' The Gospel answers the question
   of duty by pointing us to love. Wouldst thou know who is thy neighbour?
   Become a neighbour to all by the utmost service thou canst do them in
   their need. And so the Gospel would not only abolish man's enmity, but
   bridge over man's separation. Thus is the Parable truly Christian, and,
   more than this, points up to Him Who, in our great need, became
   Neighbour to us, even at the cost of all He had. And from Him, as well
   as by His Word, are we to learn our lesson of love.

   2. The Parable which follows in St. Luke's narrative [4435] seems
   closely connected with that just commented upon. It is also a story of
   a good neighbour who gives in our need, but presents another aspect of
   the truth to which the Parable of the Good Samaritan had pointed. Love
   bends to our need: this is the objective manifestation of the Gospel.
   Need looks up to love, and by its cry elicits the boon which it seeks.
   And this is the subjective experience of the Gospel. The one underlies
   the story of the first Parable, the other that of the second.

   Some such internal connection between the two Parables seems, indeed,
   indicated even by the loose manner in which this second Parable is
   strung to the request of some disciples to be taught what to pray.
   [4436] Like the Parable of the Good Samaritan,' it is typical, and its
   application would be the more felt, that it not only points to an
   exemplification, but appeals to every man's consciousness of what
   himself would do in certain given circumstances. The latter are as
   follows. A man has a friend who, long after nightfall, unexpectedly
   comes to him from a journey. He has nothing in the house, yet he must
   provide for his need, for hospitality demands it. Accordingly, though
   it be so late, he goes to his friend and neighbour to ask him for three
   loaves, stating the case. On the other hand, the friend so asked
   refuses, since, at that late hour, he has retired to bed with his
   children, and to grant his request would imply not only inconvenience
   to himself, but the disturbing of the whole household. The main
   circumstances therefore are: Sudden, unthought-of sense of imperative
   need, obliging to make what seems an unseasonable and unreasonable
   request, which, on the face of it, offers difficulties and has no claim
   upon compliance. It is, therefore, not ordinary but, so to speak,
   extraordinary prayer, which is here alluded to.

   To return to the Parable: the question (abruptly broken off from the
   beginning of the Parable in ver. 5), is what each of us would do in the
   circumstances just detailed. The answer is implied in what follows.
   [4437] It points to continued importunity, which would at last obtain
   what it needs. I tell you, even if he will not give him, rising up,
   because he is his friend, yet at least [4438] on account of his
   importunity, he will rise up and give him as many as he needeth.' This
   literal rendering will, it is hoped, remove some of the seeming
   difficulties of the Parable. It is a gross misunderstanding to describe
   it as presenting a mechanical view of prayer: as if it implied, either
   that God was unwilling to answer; or else, that prayer, otherwise
   unheard, would be answered merely for its importunity. It must be
   remembered, that he who is within is a friend, and that, under
   circumstances, he would at once have complied with the request. But, in
   this case, there were special difficulties, which are represented as
   very great; it is midnight; he has retired to bed, and with his
   children; the door is locked. And the lesson is, that where, for some
   reasons, there are, or seem, special difficulties to an answer to our
   prayers (it is very late, the door is no longer open, the children have
   already been gathered in), the importunity arising from the sense of
   our absolute need, and the knowledge that He is our Friend, and that He
   has bread, will ultimately prevail. The difficulty is not as to the
   giving, but as the giving then - rising up,' and this is overcome by
   perseverance, so that (to return to the Parable), if he will not rise
   up because he is his friend, yet at least he will rise because of his
   importunity, and not only give him three' loaves, but, in general, as
   many as he needeth.'

   So important is the teaching of this Parable, that Christ makes
   detailed application of it. In the circumstances described a man would
   persevere with his friend, and in the end succeed. And, similarly, the
   Lord bids us ask,' and that earnestly and believingly; seek,' and that
   energetically and instantly; knock,' and that intently and loudly. Ask
   - He is a Friend, and we shall receive;' seek,' it is there, and we
   shall find;' knock,' - our need is absolute, and it shall be opened to
   us. But the emphasis of the Parable and its lesson are in the word
   every one' (ps). Not only this or that, but every one,' shall so
   experience it. The word points to the special difficulties that may be
   in the way of answer to prayer - the difficulties of the rising up,'
   which have been previously indicated in the Parable. These are met by
   perseverance which indicates the reality of our need (ask'), the
   reality of our belief that the supply is there (seek'), and the
   intensity and energy of our spiritual longing (knock'). Such
   importunity applies to every one,' whoever he be, and whatever the
   circumstances which would seem to render his prayer specially difficult
   of answer. Though he feel that he has not and needs, he ask;' though he
   have lost - time, opportunities, mercies - he seek;' though the door
   seem shut, he knocks.' Thus the Lord is helper to every one;' but, as
   for us, let us learn the lesson from what we ourselves would do in
   analogous circumstances.

   Nay, more than this, God will not decieve by the appearance of what is
   not reality. He will even give the greatest gift. The Parabolic
   relation is now not that of friends, but of father and son. If the son
   asks for bread, will the father give what seems such, but is only a
   stone? If he asks for a fish, will he tender him what looks such, but
   is a serpent? If he seek an egg, will he hand to him what breeds a
   scorpion? The need, the hunger, of the child will not, in answer to its
   prayer, receive at the Father's Hands, that which seems, but gives not
   the reality of satisfaction - rather is poison. Let us draw the
   inference. Such is our conduct - how much more shall our heavenly
   Father give His Holy Spirit to them that ask Him. That gift will not
   disappoint by the appearance of what is not reality; it will not
   deceive either by the promise of what it does not give, or by giving
   what would prove fatal. As we follow Christ's teaching, we ask for the
   Holy Spirit; and the Holy Spirit, in leading us to Him, leads us into
   all truth, to all life, and to what satisfies all need.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [4411] As in Rom. v. 14.

   [4412] As in 1 Cor. x. 6, 11; Phil. iii. 17; 1 Thess. 1. 7; 2 Thess.
   iii 9; 1 Tim. iv. 12;Tit. ii. 7; 1 Pet. v.3.

   [4413] St. Luke x. 25-37.

   [4414] A distinction between different classes of Scribes, of whom some
   gave themselves to the study of the Law, while others included with it
   that of the Prophets, such as Dean Plumptre suggests (on St. Matt.
   xxii. 35), did not exist.

   [4415] See generally ch. v. of this Book.

   [4416] St. Luke xviii. 18-23.

   [4417] St. Matt. xix. 16-22; xxii. 34-40.

   [4418] Thus: "With all thy heart" - with both thy impulses, that to
   good and that to evil; "with all thy soul" - even if it takes away thy
   soul; "with all thy might" - "with all thy money." Another
   interpretation: "With all thy might" - in regard to every measure with
   which He measures to thee art thou bound to praise Him' (there is here
   a play on the words which cannot be rendered), Ber. 54 a, about the
   middle.

   [4419] Shabb. 31 a, about the middle.

   [4420] Yalkut i. 174 a, end; Siphra on the passage, ed. Weiss, p. 89 b;
   also Ber. R. 24, end.

   [4421] St. Matt. vii. 12.

   [4422] Hamburger (Real Encykl., Abth. ii. p. 411) makes the remarkable
   admission that the negative form was chosen to make the command
   possible' and practical.' It is not so that Christ has accommodated the
   Divine Law to our sinfulness. See previous remarks on this Law in Book
   III. ch. xviii.

   [4423] Rom. vii.

   [4424] Ab Zar. 26 a.

   [4425] Babha Mets 32 b.

   [4426] Ex. xxiii. 5.

   [4427] Babha Mets. 32 b line 3 from bottom.

   [4428] As to many of these allegorisations, Calvin rightly observes:
   Scripturae major habenda est reverentia, quam ut germanum ejus sensum
   hac licentia transfigurare liceat.' In general, see Goebel, u. s.

   [4429] mithan tunchnonta, Germ., wie er eben war,' Grimm, Clavis N.T.
   p. 438  b.

   [4430] I cannot (as some writers do) see any irony in the expression.

   [4431] Vol. i. p. 560.

   [4432] In the Greek, ver. 33 begins with A Samaritan, however,' to
   emphasise the contrast to the priest and Levite.

   [4433] Jer. Ber. 3 a; Shabb. 134 a.

   [4434] St. Matt. xx. 2.

   [4435] St. Luke xi. 5-13.

   [4436] ver. 1.

   [4437] ver. 8.

   [4438] di ge, Goebel, ad loc.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XVI.
THE THREE PARABLES OF WARNING: TO THE INDIVIDUAL, TO THE NATION, AND TO THE
THEOCRACY - THE FOOLISH RICH MAN - THE BARREN FIG-TREE - THE GREAT SUPPER.

   (St. Luke xii. 13-21; xiii. 6-9; xiv. 16-24.)

   The three Parables, which successively follow in St. Luke's Gospel, may
   generally be designated as those of warning.' This holds specially true
   of the last two of them, which refer to the civil and the
   ecclesiastical polity of Israel. Each of the three Parables is set in
   an historical frame, having been spoken under circumstances which gave
   occasion for such illustration.

   1. The Parable of the foolish rich man. [4439] It appears, that some
   one among them that listened to Jesus conceived the idea, that the
   authority of the Great Rabbi of Nazareth might be used for his own
   selfish purposes. This was all he had profited, that it seemed to open
   possibilities of gain - stirred thoughts of covetousness. But other
   inferences also come to us. Evidently, Christ must have attracted and
   deeply moved multitudes, or His interposition would not have been
   sought; and, equally evidently, what He preached had made upon this man
   the impression, that he might possibly enlist Him as his champion. The
   presumptive evidence which it affords as regards the effect and the
   subject-matter of Christ's preaching is exceedingly interesting. On the
   other hand, Christ had not only no legal authority for interfering, but
   the Jewish law of inheritance was so clearly defined, and, we may add,
   so just, that if this person had any just or good cause, there could
   have been no need for appealing to Jesus. Hence it must have been
   covetousness,' in the strictest sense, which prompted it - perhaps, a
   wish to have, besides his own share as a younger brother, half of that
   additional portion which, by law, came to the eldest son of the family.
   [4440] [4441] Such an attempt for covetous purposes to make use of the
   pure unselfish preaching of love, and to derive profit from His
   spiritual influence, accounts for the severity with which Christ
   rejected the demand, although, as we judge, He would, under any
   circumstances, have refused to interfere in purely civil disputes, with
   which the established tribunals were sufficient to deal.

   All this accounts for the immediate reference of our Lord to
   covetousness, the folly of which He showed by this almost self-evident
   principle, too often forgotten - that not in the superabounding to any
   one [not in that wherein he has more than enough] consisteth his life,
   from the things which he possesseth.' [4442] In other words, that part
   of the things which a man possesseth by which his life is sustained,
   consists not in what is superabundant; his life is sustained by that
   which he needs and uses; the rest, the super-abundance, forms no part
   of his life, and may, perhaps, never be of use to him. Why, then, be
   covetous, or long for more than we need? And this folly also involves
   danger. For, the love of these things will engross mind and heart, and
   care about them will drive out higher thoughts and aims. The moral as
   regarded the Kingdom of God, and the warning not to lose it for thought
   of what perisheth with the using,' are obvious.

   The Parable itself bears on all these points. It consists of two parts,
   of which the first shows the folly, the second the sin and danger, of
   that care for what is beyond our present need, which is the
   characteristic of covetousness. The rich man is surveying his land,
   which is bearing plentifully - evidently beyond its former yield, since
   the old provision for storing the corn appears no longer sufficient. It
   seems implied - or, we may at least conjecture - that this was not only
   due to the labour and care of the master, but that he had devoted to it
   his whole thought and energy. More than this, it seems as if, in the
   calculations which he now made, he looked into the future, and saw
   there progressive increase and riches. As yet, the harvest was not
   reaped; but he was already considering what to do, reckoning upon the
   riches that would come to him. And so he resolved to pull down the old,
   and build larger barns, where he would store his future possessions.
   From one aspect there would have been nothing wrong in an act of almost
   necessary foresight - only great folly in thinking, and speaking, and
   making plans, as if that were already absolutely his which might never
   come to him at all, which, was still unreaped, and might be garnered
   long after he was dead. His life was not sustained by that part of his
   possessions which were the superabounding.' But to this folly was also
   added sin. For, God was not in all his thoughts. In all his plans for
   the future - and it was his folly to make such absolutely - he thought
   not of God. His whole heart was set on the acquisition of earthly
   riches - not on the service of God. He remembered not his
   responsibility; all that he had, was for himself, and absolutely his
   own to batten upon; Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years;
   take thine ease, eat, drink, be merry.' He did not even remember, that
   there was a God Who might cut short his years.

   So had he spoken in his heart - proud, selfish, self-indulgent,
   God-forgetting - as he looked forth upon what was not yet, even in an
   inferior sense, his own, but which he already treated as such, and that
   in the most absolute sense. And now comes the quick, sharp, contrast,
   which is purposely introduced quite abruptly. But God said unto Him' -
   not by revelation nor through inward presentiment, but, with awful
   suddenness, in those unspoken words of fact which cannot be gainsaid or
   answered: Thou fool! this very night' - which follows on thy plans and
   purposings - thy soul is required of thee. But, the things which thou
   hast prepared, whose shall they be?' Here, with the obvious evidence of
   the folly of such state of mind, the Parable breaks off. Its sinfulness
   - nay, and beyond this negative aspect of it, the wisdom of
   righteousness in laying up the good treasure which cannot be taken from
   us, appears in this concluding remark of Christ - So is he who layeth
   up treasure (treasureth) for himself, and is not rich towards God.'

   It was a barbed arrow, we might say, out of the Jewish quiver, but
   directed by the Hand of the Lord. For, we read in the Talmud [4443]
   that a Rabbi told his disciples, Repent the day before thy death;' and
   when his disciples asked him: Does a man know the day of his death?' he
   replied, that on that very ground he should repent to-day, lest he
   should die to-morrow. And so would all his days be days of repentance.
   Again, the son of Sirach wrote: [4444] There is that waxeth rich by his
   wariness and pinching, and this is the portion of his reward; whereas
   he saith, I have found rest, and now will eat continually of my goods;
   and yet he knoweth not what time shall come upon him, and that he must
   leave those things to others, and die.' But we sadly miss in all this
   the spiritual application which Christ made. Similarly, the Talmud,
   [4445] by a play on the last word ({hebrew}), in the first verse of
   Psalm xlix., compares man to the weasel, which laboriously gathers and
   deposits, not knowing for whom, while the Midrash [4446] tells a story,
   how, when a Rabbi returned from a feast where the Host had made plans
   of storing his wine for a future occasion, the Angel of Death appeared
   to him, grieved for man, since you say, thus and thus shall we do in
   the future, while no one knoweth how soon he shall be called to die,'
   as would be the case with the host of that evening, who would die after
   the lapse of thirty days. But once more we ask, where is the spiritual
   application, such as was made by Christ? So far from it, the Midrash
   adds, that when the Rabbi challenged the Angel to show him the time of
   his own death, he received this reply, that he had not dominion over
   the like of him, since God took pleasure in their good works, and added
   to their days!

   2. The special warning intended to be conveyed by the Parable of the
   Barren Fig-tree [4447] sufficiently appears from the context. As
   explained in a previous chapter, [4448] the Lord had not only corrected
   the erroneous interpretation which the Jews were giving to certain
   recent national occurences, but pointed them to this higher moral of
   all such events, that, unless speedy national repentance followed, the
   whole people would perish. This Parable offers not merely an
   exemplification of this general prediction of Christ, but sets before
   us what underlies it: Israel in its relation to God; the need of
   repentance; Israel's danger; the nature of repentance, and its urgency;
   the relation of Christ to Israel; the Gospel; and the final judgment on
   impenitence.

   As regards the details of this Parable, we mark that the fig-tree had
   been specially planted by the owner in his vineyard, which was the
   choicest situation. This, we know, was not unusual. Fig-trees, as well
   as palm and olive-trees, were regarded as so valuable, that to cut them
   down if they yielded even a small measure of fruit, was popularly
   deemed to deserve death at the Hand of God. [4449] Ancient Jewish
   writings supply interesting particulars of this tree and its culture.
   According to Josephus, in favoured localities the ripe fruit hung on
   the tree for ten months of the year, [4450] the two barren months being
   probably April and May, before the first of the three crops which it
   bore had ripened. The first figs [4451] ripened towards the end of
   June, sometimes earlier. The second, which are those now dried and
   exported, ripened in August; the third, which were small and of
   comparatively little value, in September, and often hung all winter on
   the trees. A species (the Benoth Shuach) is mentioned, of which the
   fruit required three years for ripening. [4452] The fig-tree was
   regarded as the most fruitful of all trees. [4453] On account of its
   repeated crops, it was declared not subject to the ordinance which
   enjoined that fruit should be left in the corners for the poor. [4454]
   Its artificial inoculation was known. [4455] The practice mentioned in
   the Parable, of digging about the tree ({hebrew}), and dunging it
   ({hebrew}), is frequently mentioned in Rabbinic writings, and by the
   same designations. Curiously, Maimonides mentions three years as the
   utmost limit within which a tree should bear fruit in the land of
   Israel. [4456] Lastly, as trees were regarded as by their roots
   undermining and deteriorating the land, [4457] a barren tree would be
   of threefold disadvantage: it would yield no fruit; it would fill
   valuable space, which a fruit-bearer might occupy; and it would
   needlessly deteriorate the land. Accordingly, while it was forbidden to
   destroy fruit-bearing trees, [4458] it would, on the grounds above
   stated, be duty to cut down a barren' or empty' tree (Ilan seraq [4459]
   ).

   These particulars will enable us more fully to understand the details
   of the Parable. Allegorically, the fig-tree served in the Old Testament
   as emblem of the Jewish nation [4460] - in the Talmud, rather as that
   of Israel's lore, and hence of the leaders and the pious of the people.
   [4461] The vineyard is in the New Testament the symbol of the Kingdom
   of God, as distinct from the nation of Israel. [4462] Thus far, then,
   the Parable may be thus translated: God called Israel as a nation, and
   planted it in the most favoured spot: as a fig-tree in the vineyard of
   His own Kingdom. And He came seeking,' as He had every right to do,
   fruit thereon, and found none.' It was the third year [4463] that He
   had vainly looked for fruit, when He turned to His Vinedresser - the
   Messiah, to Whom the vineyard is committed as its King - with this
   direction: Cut it down - why doth it also deteriorate the soil?' It is
   barren, though in the best position; as a fig-tree it ought to bear
   figs, and here the best; it fills the place which a good tree might
   occupy; and besides, it deteriorates [4464] the soil (literally:
   {hebrew}). And its three years' barrenness has established (as before
   explained) its utterly hopeless character. Then it is that the Divine
   Vinedresser, in His infinite compassion, pleads, and with far deeper
   reality than either Abraham or Moses could have entreated, for the
   fig-tree which Himself had planted and tended, that it should be spared
   this year also,' until then that I shall dig about it, and dung it,' -
   till He labour otherwise than before, even by His Own Presence and
   Words, nay, by laying to its roots His most precious Blood. And if then
   it bear fruit' - here the text abruptly breaks off, as implying that in
   such case it would, of course, be allowed to remain; but if not, then
   against [4465] the future (coming) year shalt thou cut it down.' The
   Parable needs no further commentation. [4466] In the words of a recent
   writer: [4467] Between the tree and the axe nothing intervenes but the
   intercession of the Gardener, Who would make a last effort, and even
   His petition applies only to a short and definite period, and, in case
   it pass without result, this petition itself merges in the proposal,
   "But if not, then cut it down."' How speedily and terribly the warning
   came true, not only students of history, but all men and in all ages
   have been made to know. Of the lawfulness of a further application of
   this Parable to all kindred circumstances of nation, community, family,
   nay, even of individuals, it is not necessary to speak.

   3. The third Parable of warning - that of the Great Supper [4468] -
   refers not to the political state of Israel, but to their
   ecclesiastical status, and their continuance as the possessors and
   representatives of the Kingdom of God. It was spoken after the return
   of Jesus from the Feast of the Dedication, and therefore carries us
   beyond the point in this history which we have reached. Accordingly,
   the attendant circumstances will be explained in the sequel. In regard
   to these we only note, how appropriately such a warning of Israel's
   spiritual danger, in consequence of their hardness of heart,
   misrepresentation, and perversion of God's truth, would come at a
   Sabbath-meal of the Pharisees, when they lay in wait against Him, and
   He first challenged their externalising of God's Day and Law to the
   subversion of its real meaning, and then rebuked the self-assertion,
   pride, and utter want of all real love on the part of these leaders of
   Israel.

   What led up to the Parable of the Great Supper' happened after these
   things: after His healing of the man with the dropsy in sight of them
   all on the Sabbath, after His twofold rebuke of their perversion of the
   Sabbath-Law, and of those marked characteristics of Pharisaism, which
   showed how far they were from bringing forth fruit worthy of the
   Kingdom, and how, instead of representing, they represented the
   Kingdom, and were utterly unfit ever to do otherwise. [4469] The Lord
   had spoken of making a feast, not for one's kindred, nor for the rich -
   whether such outwardly, or mentally and spirtually from the standpoint
   of the Pharisees - but for the poor and afflicted. This would imply
   true spirituality, because that fellowship of giving, which descends to
   others in order to raise them as brethren, not condescends, in order to
   be raised by them as their Master and Superior. [4470] And He had
   concluded with these words: And thou shalt be blessed - because they
   have not to render back again to thee, for it shall be rendered back to
   thee again in the Resurrection of the Just.' [4471]

   It was this last clause - but separated, in true Pharisaic spirit, from
   that which had preceded, and indicated the motive - on which one of
   those present now commented, probably with a covert, perhaps a
   provocative, reference to what formed the subject of Christ's constant
   teaching: Blessed whoso shall eat bread in the Kingdom of Heaven.' An
   expression this, which to the Pharisee meant the common Jewish
   expectancy of a great feast [4472] at the beginning of the Messianic
   Kingdom. So far he had rightly understood, and yet he had entirely
   misunderstood, the words of Christ. Jesus had, indeed, referred to the
   future retribution of (not, for) deeds of love, among which He had
   named as an instance, suggested by the circumstances, a feast for, or
   rather brotherly love and fellowship towards, the poor and suffering.
   But although the Pharisee referred to the Messianic Day, his words show
   that he did not own Jesus as the Messiah. Whether or not it was the
   object of his exclamation, as sometimes religious commonplaces or
   platitudes are in our days, to interrupt the course of Christ's
   rebukes, or, as before hinted, to provoke Him to unguarded speech, must
   be left undetermined. What is chiefly apparent is, that this Pharisee
   separated what Christ said about the blessings of the first
   Resurrection from that with which He had connected them - we do not say
   as their condition, but as logically their moral antecedent: viz.,
   love, in opposition to self-assertion and self-seeking. The Pharisee's
   words imply that, like his class, he, at any rate, fully expected to
   share in these blessings, as a matter of course, and because he was a
   Pharisee. Thus to leave out Christ's anteceding words was not only to
   set them aside, but to pervert His saying, and to place the blessedness
   of the future on the very opposite basis from that on which Christ had
   rested it. Accordingly, it was to this man personally [4473] that the
   Parable was addressed.

   There can be no difficulty in understanding the main ideas underlying
   the Parable. The man who made the Great Supper' [4474] was He Who had,
   in the Old Testament, prepared a feast of fat things.' [4475] The
   bidding many' preceded the actual announcement of the day and hour of
   the feast. We understand by it a preliminary intimation of the feast
   then preparing, and a general invitation of the guests, who were the
   chief people in the city; for, as we shall presently see, the scene is
   laid in a city. This general announcement was made in the Old Testament
   institutions and prophecies, and the guests bidden were those in the
   city, the chief men - not the ignorant and those out of the way, but
   the men who knew, and read, and expounded these prophecies. At last the
   preparations were ended, and the Master sent out His Servant, not
   necessarily to be understood of any one individual in particular - such
   as John the Baptist - but referring to whomsoever He would employ in
   His Service for that purpose. It was to intimate to the persons
   formerly bidden, that everything was now ready. Then it was that,
   however differing in their special grounds for it, or expressing it
   with more or less courtesy, they were all at one in declining to come.
   The feast, to which they had been bidden some time before, and to which
   they had apparently agreed to come (at least, this was implied), was,
   when actually announced as ready, not what they had expected, at any
   rate not what they regarded as more desirable than what they had, and
   must give up in order to come to it. For - and this seems one of the
   principal points in the Parable - to come to that feast, to enter into
   the Kingdom, implies the giving up of something that seems if not
   necessary yet most desirable, and the enjoyment of which appears only
   reasonable. Be it possession, business, and pleasure (Stier), or the
   priesthood, the magistracy, and the people generally (St. Augustine),
   or the priesthood, the Pharisees, and the Scribes, or the Pharisees,
   the Scribes, and the self-righteously virtuous, with reference to whom
   we are specially to think of the threefold excuse, the main point lies
   in this, that, when the time came, they all refused to enter in, each
   having some valid and reasonable excuse. But the ultimate ground of
   their refusal was, that they felt no real desire, and saw nothing
   attractive in such a feast; had no real reverence for the host; in
   short, that to them it was not a feast at all, but something much less
   to be desired than what they had, and would have been obliged to give
   up, if they had complied with the invitation.

   Then let the feast - for it was prepared by the goodness and liberality
   of the Host - be for those who were in need of it, and to whom it would
   be a feast: the poor and those afflicted - the maimed, and blind, and
   lame, on whom those great citizens who had been first bidden would look
   down. This, with reference to, and in higher spiritual explanation of,
   what Christ had previously said about bidding such to our feast of
   fellowship and love. [4476] Accordingly, the Servant is now directed to
   go out quickly into the (larger) streets and the (narrow) lanes of the
   City,' - a trait which shows that the scene is laid in the City,' the
   professed habitation of God. The importance of this circumstance is
   evident. It not only explains who the first bidden chief citizens were,
   but also that these poor were the despised ignorant, and the maimed,
   lame, and blind - such as the publicans and sinners. These are they in
   the streets' and lanes;' and the Servant is directed, not only to
   invite, but to bring them in,' as otherwise they might naturally shrink
   from coming to such a feast. But even so, there is yet room;' for the
   great Lord of the house has, in His great liberality, prepared a very
   great feast for very many. And so the Servant is once more sent, so
   that the Master's house may be filled.' But now he is bidden to go
   out,' outside the City, outside the Theocracy, into the highways and
   hedges,' to those who travel along the world's great highway, or who
   have fallen down weary, and rest by its hedges; into the busy, or else
   weary, heathen world. This reference to the heathen world is the more
   apparent that, according to the Talmud, [4477] there were commonly no
   hedges round the fields of the Jews. And this time the direction to the
   Servant is not, as in regard to those naturally bashful outcasts of the
   City - who would scarcely venture to the great house - to bring them
   in,' but constrain' [without a pronoun] to come in,' Not certainly as
   indicating their resistance and implying force, [4478] but as the moral
   constraint of earnest, pressing invitation, coupled with assurance both
   of the reality of the feast and of their welcome to it. For, these
   wanderers on the world's highway had, before the Servant came to them,
   not known anything of the Master of the house, and all was quite new
   and unexpected. Their being invited by a Lord Whom they had not known,
   perhaps never heard of before, to a City in which they were strangers,
   and to a feast for which - as wayfarers, or as resting by the hedges,
   or else as working within their enclosure - they were wholly
   unprepared, required special urgency, a constraining,' to make them
   either believe in it, or come to it from where the messengers found
   them, and that without preparing for it by dress or otherwise. And so
   the house would be filled!

   Here the Parable abruptly breaks off. What follows are the words of our
   Lord in explanation and application of it to the company then present:
   For I say unto you, that none of those men which were bidden shall
   taste of My supper.' And this was the final answer to this Pharisee and
   to those with him at that table, and to all such perversion of Christ's
   Words and misapplication of God's Promises as he and they were guilty
   of.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [4439] St. Luke xii. 13-21.

   [4440] Bekhor viii. 2; Baba B. viii.

   [4441] Cases might, however, arise when the claim was doubtful, and
   then the inheritance would be divided (Baba B. ix. 2). The double part
   of an eldest son was computed in the following manner. If five sons
   were left, the property was divided into six parts, and the eldest son
   had two parts, or one-third of the property. If nine sons were left,
   the property was divided into ten parts, and the eldest son had two
   parts, or a fifth of the property. But there were important limitations
   to this. Thus, the law did not apply to a posthumous son, nor yet in
   regard to the mother's property, nor to any increase or gain that might
   have accrued since the father's death. For a brief summary, see
   Saalschütz, Mos. Recht, pp. 820 &c.

   [4442] So literally.

   [4443] Shabb. 153 a line 16 &c. from top.

   [4444] Ecclus. xi. 18, 19.

   [4445] Jer. Shabb. 14 c, top.

   [4446] Debar. R. 9, ed. Warsh. p. 19 b, line 6 from top and onwards.

   [4447] St. Luke xiii. 6-9.

   [4448] See ch. xiii. of this Book.

   [4449] Baba K. 91 b.

   [4450] War. iii. 10. 8.

   [4451] Phaggim, Shebh. iv 7.

   [4452] Shebh. v. 1.

   [4453] Shebh. i. 3.

   [4454] Peah i. 4.

   [4455] Shebh. ii. 5.

   [4456] Moreh Nebhukh. iii. 37, apud Wetstein, ad loc.

   [4457] Baba B. 19 b.

   [4458] Deut. xx, 19; Baba K. 91 b; 92 a.

   [4459] Kil. vi. 5.

   [4460] Joel i. 7.

   [4461] Ber. 57 a; Mikr. on Cant. i. 1.

   [4462] St. Matt. xx. 1&c.; xxi. 33 &c. In Jewish thought the two were
   scarcely separated.

   [4463] Not after three years, but evidently in the third year, when the
   third year's crop should have appeared.

   [4464] katarge. Grimm renders the word, enervo, sterilem reddo.

   [4465] es t mllon. Goebel points to a similiar use of es in St. Luke i.
   20;  Acts xiii. 42.

   [4466] Dean Plumptre regards the fig-tree as the symbol of a soul
   making fruitless profession; the vineyard as that of Israel. For
   homiletical purposes, or for practical application, this is, of course,
   perfectly fair; but not in strict exegesis. To waive other and obvious
   objections, it were to introduce modern, Christian ideas, which would
   have been wholly unintelligible to Christ's hearers.

   [4467] Goebel.

   [4468] St. Luke xiv. 16-24.

   [4469] St. Luke xiv. 1-11.

   [4470] vv. 12, 13.

   [4471] St. Luke xiv. 14.

   [4472] The expression eating bread' is a well-known Hebraism, used both
   in the Old Testament and in Rabbinic writings for taking part in a
   meal.

   [4473] ver. 16.

   [4474] Rather the principal meal, which was towards evening.

   [4475] Is. xxv. 6, 7.

   [4476] St. Luke xiv. 13.

   [4477] B. Bathr. 4 a, lines 8-10 from bottom.

   [4478] It is most sad, and seems almost incredible, that this constrain
   to come in' has from of old been quoted in justification of religious
   persecution.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XVII.
THE THREE PARABLES OF THE GOSPEL: OF THE RECOVERY OF THE LOST - OF THE LOST
SHEEP, THE LOST DRACHM, THE LOST SON.

   (St. Luke xv.)

   A SIMPLE perusal of the three Parables, grouped together in the
   fifteenth chapter of St. Luke's Gospel, will convince us of their
   connection. Although they treat of repentance,' we can scarcely call
   them The Parables of Repentance;' for, except in the last of them, the
   aspect of repentance is subordinate to that of restoration, which is
   the moral effect of repentance. They are rather peculiarly
   Gospel-Parables of the recovery of the lost:' in the first instance,
   through the unwearied labour; in the second, through the anxious care,
   of the owner; and in the third Parable, through the never-ceasing love
   of the Father.

   Properly to understand these Parables, the circumstance which elicited
   them must be kept in view. As Jesus preached the Gospel of God's call,
   not to those who had, as they imagined, prepared themselves for the
   Kingdom by study and good works, but as that to a door open, and a
   welcome free to all, all the publicans and sinners were [constantly]
   drawing near to Him.' It has formerly been shown, [4479] that the
   Jewish teaching concerning repentance was quite other than, nay,
   contrary to, that of Christ. Theirs was not a Gospel to the lost: they
   had nothing to say to sinners. They called upon them to do penitence,'
   and then Divine Mercy, or rather Justice, would have its reward for the
   penitent. Christ's Gospel was to the lost as such. It told them of
   forgiveness, of what the Saviour was doing, and the Father purposed and
   felt for them; and that, not in the future and as reward of their
   penitence, but now in the immediate present. From what we know of the
   Pharisees, we can scarcely wonder that they were murmuring at Him,
   saying, This man receiveth "sinners," and eateth with them.' Whether or
   not Christ had on this, as on other occasions, [4480] joined at a meal
   with such persons - which, of course, in the eyes of the Pharisees
   would have been a great aggravation to His offence - their charge was
   so far true, that this One,' in contrariety to the principles and
   practice of Rabbinism, received sinners' as such, and consorted with
   them. Nay, there was even more than they charged Him with: He not only
   received them when they sought Him, but He sought them, so as to bring
   them to Him; not, indeed, that they might remain sinners,' but that, by
   seeking and finding them, they might be restored to the Kingdom, and
   there might be joy in heaven over them. And so these are truly
   Gospel-Parables, although presenting only some aspects of it.

   Besides their subject-matter, these three Parables have some other
   points in common. Two things are here of chief interest. They all
   proceed on the view that the work of the Father and of Christ, as
   regards the Kingdom,' is the same; that Christ was doing the work of
   the Father, and that they who know Christ know the Father also. That
   work was the restoration of the lost; Christ had come to do it, and it
   was the longing of the Father to welcome the lost home again. Further,
   and this is only second in importance, the lost was still God's
   property; and he who had wandered farthest was a child of the Father,
   and considered as such. And, although this may, in a wider sense, imply
   the general propriety of Christ in all men, and the universal
   Fatherhood of God, yet, remembering that this Parable was spoken to
   Jews, we, to whom these Parables now come, can scarcely be wrong in
   thinking, as we read them, with special thankfulness of our Christian
   privileges, as by Baptism numbered among the sheep of His Flock, the
   treasure of His Possession, and the children of His Home. [4481]

   In other particulars there are, however, differences, all the more
   marked that they are so finely shaded. These concern the lost, their
   restoration, and its results.

   1. The Parable of the Lost Sheep. - At the outset we remark that this
   Parable and the next, that of the Lost Drachm, are intended as an
   answer to the Pharisees. Hence they are addressed to them: What man of
   you?' [4482] or what woman?' [4483] just as His late rebuke to them on
   the subject of their Sabbath-cavils had been couched: Which of you
   shall have a son or an ox fallen into a well?' [4484] Not so the last
   Parable, of the Lost Son, in which He passed from defence, or rather
   explanation, of His conduct, to its higher reason, showing that He was
   doing the work of the Father. Hence, while the element of comparison
   (with that which had not been lost) appears in most detailed form in
   the first Parable, it is generalised in the second, and wholly omitted
   in the third.

   Other differences have to be marked in the Parables themselves. In the
   first Parable (that of the Lost Sheep) the main interest centres in the
   lost; in the second (that of the Lost Drachm), in the search; in the
   third, in the restoration. And although in the third Parable the
   Pharisees are not addressed, there is the highest personal application
   to them in the words which the Father speaks to the elder son - an
   application, not so much of warning, as of loving correction and
   entreaty, and which seems to imply, what otherwise these Parables
   convey, that at least these Pharisees had murmured,' not so much from
   bitter hostility to Christ, as from spiritual ignorance and
   misunderstanding.

   Again, these Parables, and especially that of the Lost Sheep, are
   evidently connected with the preceding series, that of warnings.' The
   last of these showed how the poor, the blind, lame, and maimed, nay,
   even the wanderers on the world's highway, were to be the guests at the
   heavenly Feast. And this, not only in the future, and after long and
   laborious preparation, but now, through the agency of the Saviour. As
   previously stated, Rabbinism placed acceptance at the end of
   repentance, and made it its wages. And this, because it knew not, nor
   felt the power of sin, nor yet the free grace of God. The Gospel places
   acceptance at the beginning of repentance, and as the free gift of
   God's love. And this, because it not only knows the power of sin, but
   points to a Saviour, provided of God.

   The Lost Sheep is only one among a hundred: not a very great loss. Yet
   which among us would not, even from the common motives of ownership,
   leave the ninety-and-nine, and go after it, all the more that it has
   strayed into the wilderness? And, to take these Pharisees on their own
   ground, [4485] should not the Christ have done likewise to the straying
   and almost lost sheep of His own flock? Nay, quite generally and to all
   time, is this not the very work of the Good Shepherd,' and may we not,
   each of us, thus draw from it precious comfort? As we think of it, we
   remember that it is natural for the foolish sheep so to wander and
   stray. And we think not only of those sheep which Jewish pride and
   superciliousness had left to go astray, but of our own natural tendency
   to wander. And we recall the saying of St. Peter, which, no doubt,
   looked back upon this Parable: Ye were as sheep going astray; but are
   now returned unto the Shepherd and Bishop of your souls.' [4486] It is
   not difficult in imagination to follow the Parabolic picture: how in
   its folly and ignorance the sheep strayed further and further, and at
   last was lost in solitude and among stony places; how the shepherd
   followed and found it, weary and footsore; and then with tender care
   lifted it on his shoulder, and carried it home, gladsome that he had
   found the lost. And not only this, but when, after long absence, he
   returned home with his found sheep, that now nestled close to its
   Saviour, he called together his friends, and bade them rejoice with him
   over the erst lost and now found treasure.

   It needs not, and would only diminish the pathos of this exquisite
   Parable, were we to attempt interpreting its details. They apply
   wherever and to whatever they can be applied. Of these three things we
   think: of the lost sheep; of the Good Shepherd, seeking, finding,
   bearing, rejoicing; and of the sympathy of all who are truly friends -
   like-minded with Him. These, then, are the emblems of heavenly things.
   In heaven - oh, how different the feeling from that of Pharisaism! View
   the flock' as do the Pharisees, and divide them into those who need and
   who need not repentance, the sinners' and the righteous,' as regards
   man's application of the Law - does not this Parable teach us that in
   heaven there shall be joy over the sinner that repenteth' more than
   over the ninety-and-nine' righteous,' which have not need of
   repentance'? And to mark the terrible contrast between the teaching of
   Christ and that of the Pharisees; to mark also, how directly from
   heaven must have been the message of Jesus, and how poor sinners must
   have felt it such, we put down in all its nakedness the message which
   Pharisaism brought to the lost. Christ said to them: There is joy in
   heaven over one sinner that repenteth.' Pharisaism said - and we quote
   here literally - There is joy before God when those who provoke Him
   perish from the world.' [4487]

   2. In proceeding to the second Parable, that of the Lost Drachm, we
   must keep in mind that in the first the danger of being lost arose from
   the natural tendency of the sheep to wander. [4488] In the second
   Parable it is no longer our natural tendency to which our loss is
   attributable. The drachm (about 7 ½d. of our money) has been lost, as
   the woman, its owner, was using or counting her money. The loss is the
   more sensible, as it is one out of only ten, which constitute the
   owner's property. But it is still in the house - not like the sheep
   that had gone astray - only covered by the dust that is continually
   accumulating from the work and accidents around. And so it is more and
   more likely to be buried under it, or swept into chinks and corners,
   and less and less likely to be found as time passes. But the woman
   lights a lamp, sweeps the house, and seeks diligently, till she has
   found it. And then she calleth together those around, and bids them
   rejoice with her over the finding of the lost part of her possessions.
   And so there is joy in the presence of the Angels over one sinner that
   repenteth. The comparison with others that need not such is now
   dropped, because, whereas formerly the sheep had strayed - though from
   the frowardness of its nature - here the money had simply been lost,
   fallen among the dust that accumulates - practically, was no longer
   money, or of use; became covered, hidden, and was in danger of being
   for ever out of sight, not serviceable, as it was intended to be and
   might have been.

   We repeat, the interest of this Parable centres in the search, and the
   loss is caused, not by natural tendency, but by surrounding
   circumstances, which cover up the bright silver, hide it, and render it
   useless as regards its purpose, and lost to its owner.

   3. If it has already appeared that the two first Parables are not
   merely a repetition, in different form, of the same thought, but
   represent two different aspects and causes of the being lost' - the
   essential difference between them appears even more clearly in the
   third Parable, that of the Lost Son. Before indicating it in detail, we
   may mark the similarity in form, and the contrast in spirit, of
   analogous Rabbinic Parables. The thoughtful reader will have noted this
   even in the Jewish parallel to the first Parable, [4489] where the
   reason of the man following the straying animal is Pharisaic fear and
   distrust, lest the Jewish wine which it carried should become mingled
   with that of the Gentiles. Perhaps, however, this is a more apt
   parallel, when the Midrash [4490] relates how, when Moses fed the sheep
   of Jethro in the wilderness, and a kid had gone astray, he went after
   it, and found it drinking at a spring. As he thought it might be weary,
   he laid it on his shoulder and brought it back, when God said that,
   because he had shown pity on the sheep of a man, He would give him His
   own sheep, Israel, to feed. [4491] As a parallel to the second Parable,
   this may be quoted as similar in form, though very different in spirit,
   when a Rabbi notes, [4492] that, if a man had lost a Sela (drachm) or
   anything else of value in his house, he would light ever so many lights
   ({hebrew}) till he had found what provides for only one hour in this
   world. How much more, then, should he search, as for hidden treasures,
   for the words of the Law, on which depends the life of this and of the
   world to come! [4493] And in regard to the high place which Christ
   assigned to the repenting sinner, we may note that, according to the
   leading Rabbis, the penitents would stand nearer to God than the
   perfectly righteous' ({hebrew}), since, in Is. lvii. 19, peace was
   first bidden to those who had been afar off, and then only to those
   near. This opinion was, however, not shared by all, and one Rabbi
   maintained, [4494] that, while all the prophets had only prophesied
   with reference to penitents (this had been the sole object of their
   mission), yet, as regarded the perfectly righteous,' eye hath not seen'
   O God, beside Thee, what He hath prepared' for them. [4495] Lastly, it
   may, perhaps, be noted, that the expression there is joy before Him'
   ({hebrew}) is not uncommon in Jewish writings with reference to events
   which take place on earth.

   To complete these notes, it may be added that, besides illustrations,
   to which reference will be made in the sequel, Rabbinic tradition
   supplies a parallel to at least part of the third Parable, that of the
   Lost Son. It tells us that, while prayer may sometimes find the gate of
   access closed, it is never shut against repentance, and it introduces a
   Parable in which a king sends a tutor after his son, who, in his
   wickedness, had left the palace, with this message: Return, my son!' to
   which the latter replied: With what face can I return? I am ashamed!'
   On which the father sends this message: My son, is there a son who is
   ashamed to return to his father - and shalt thou not return to thy
   father? Thou shalt return.' So, continues the Midrash, had God sent
   Jeremiah after Israel in the hour of their sin with the call to return,
   [4496] and the comforting reminder that it was to their Father. [4497]

   In the Parable of the Lost Son,' the main interest centres in his
   restoration. It is not now to the innate tendency of his nature, nor
   yet to the work and dust in the house that the loss is attributable,
   but to the personal, free choice of the individual. He does not stray;
   he does not fall aside - he wilfully departs, and under aggravated
   circumstances. It is the younger of two sons of a father, who is
   equally loving to both, and kind even to his hired servants, whose
   home, moreover, is one not only of sufficiency, but of superabundance
   and wealth. The demand which he makes for the portion of property
   falling' to him is founded on the Jewish Law of Inheritance. [4498]
   Presumably, the father had only these two sons. The eldest would
   receive two portions, the younger the third of all movable property.
   The father could not have disinherited the younger son, although, if
   there had been several younger sons, he might have divided the property
   falling to them as he wished, provided he expressed only his
   disposition, and did not add that such or such of the children were to
   have a less share or none at all. On the other hand, a man might,
   during his lifetime, dispose of all his property by gift, as he chose,
   to the disadvantage, or even the total loss, of the first-born, or of
   any other children; nay, he might give all to strangers. [4499] In such
   cases, as, indeed, in regard to all such dispositions, greater latitude
   was allowed if the donor was regarded as dangerously ill, than if he
   was in good health. In the latter case a legal formality of actual
   seizure required to be gone through. With reference to the two
   eventualities just mentioned - that of diminishing or taking away the
   portion of younger children, and the right of gift - the Talmud speaks
   of Testaments, [4500] which bear the name Diyatiqi, as in the New
   Testament. [4501] These dispositions might be made either in writing or
   orally. But if the share of younger children was to be diminished or
   taken away, the disposition must be made by a person presumably near
   death (Shekhibh mera). But no one in good health (Bari) could diminish
   (except by gift) the legal portion of a younger son. [4502]

   It thus appears that the younger son was, by law, fully entitled to his
   share of the possessions, although, of course, he had no right to claim
   it during the lifetime of his father. That he did so, might have been
   due to the feeling that, after all, he must make his own way in the
   world; to dislike of the order and discipline of his home; to
   estrangement from his elder brother; or, most likely, to a desire for
   liberty and enjoyment, with the latent belief that he would succeed
   well enough if left to himself. At any rate, his conduct, whatever his
   motives, was most heartless as regarded his father, and sinful as
   before God. Such a disposition could not prosper. The father had
   yielded to his demand, and, to be as free as possible from control and
   restraint, the younger son had gone into a far country. There the
   natural sequences soon appeared, and his property was wasted in riotous
   living. Regarding the demand for his inheritance as only a secondary
   trait in the Parable, designed, on the one hand, more forcibly to bring
   out the guilt of the son, and, on the other, the goodness, and
   afterwards the forgiveness, of the Father, we can scarcely doubt that
   by the younger son we are to understand those publicans and sinners'
   against whose reception by, and fellowship with, Christ the Pharisees
   had murmured.

   The next scene in the history is misunderstood when the objection is
   raised, that the young man's misery is there represented as the result
   of Providential circumstances rather than of his own misdoing. To begin
   with, he would not have been driven to such straits in the famine, if
   he had not wasted his substance with riotous living. Again, the main
   object is to show, that absolute liberty and indulgence of sinful
   desires and passions ended in anything but happiness. The Providence of
   God had an important part in this. Far more frequently are folly and
   sin punished in the ordinary course of Providence than by special
   judgments. Indeed, it is contrary to the teaching of Christ, [4503] and
   it would lead to an unmoral view of life, to regard such direct
   interpositions as necessary, or to substitute them for the ordinary
   government of God. Similarly, for our awakening also we are frequently
   indebted to what is called the Providence, but what is really the
   manifold working together of the grace, of God. And so we find special
   meaning in the occurrence of this famine. That, in his want, he clave
   [4504] (kollthe) to one of the citizens of that country,' seems to
   indicate that the man had been unwilling to engage the dissipated young
   stranger, and only yielded to his desperate importunity. This also
   explains how he employed him in the lowest menial service, that of
   feeding swine. To a Jew, there was more than degradation in this, since
   the keeping of swine (although perhaps the ownership rather than the
   feeding) was prohibited to Israelites under a curse. [4505] [4506] And
   even in this demeaning service he was so evil entreated, that for very
   hunger he would fain have filled his belly with the carob-pods that the
   swine did eat.' But here the same harshness, which had sent him to such
   employment, met him on the part of all the people of that country: and
   no man gave unto him,' even sufficient of such food. What perhaps gives
   additional meaning to this description is the Jewish saying: When
   Israel is reduced to the carob-tree, they become repentant.' [4507]
   [4508]

   It was this pressure of extreme want which first showed to the younger
   son the contrast between the country and the circumstances to which his
   sin had brought him, and the plentiful provision of the home he had
   left, and the kindness which provided bread enough and to spare for
   even the hired servants. There was only a step between what he said,
   having come into himself,' and his resolve to return, though its felt
   difficulty seems implied in the expression: I will arise.' Nor would he
   go back with the hope of being reinstated in his position as son,
   seeing he had already received, and wasted in sin, his portion of the
   patrimony. All he sought was to be made as one of the hired servants.
   And, alike from true feeling, and to show that this was all his
   pretence, he would preface his request by the confession, that he had
   sinned against heaven' - a frequent Hebraism for against God' [4509] -
   and in the sight of his father, and hence could no longer lay claim to
   the name of son. The provision of the son he had, as stated, already
   spent, the name he no longer deserved. This favour only would he seek,
   to be as a hired servant in his father's house, instead of in that
   terrible, strange land of famine and harshness.

   But the result was far other than he could have expected. When we read
   that, while he was yet afar off, his father saw him,' we must evidently
   understand it in the sense, that his father had been always on the
   outlook for him, an impression which is strengthened by the later
   command to the servants to bring the calf, the fatted one,' [4510] as
   if it had been specially fattened against his return. As he now saw
   him, he was moved with compassion, and he ran, and he fell on his neck,
   and covered him with kisses.' [4511] Such a reception rendered the
   purposed request, to be made as one of the hired servants, impossible -
   and its spurious insertion in the text of some important manuscripts
   [4512] affords sad evidence of the want of spiritual tact and insight
   of early copyists. The father's love had anticipated his confession,
   and rendered its self-spoken sentence of condemnation impossible.
   Perfect love casteth out fear,' and the hard thoughts concerning
   himself and his deserts on the part of the returning sinner were
   banished by the love of the father. And so he only made confession of
   his sin and wrong - not now as preface to the request to be taken in as
   a servant, but as the outgoing of a humbled, grateful, truly penitent
   heart. Him whom want had humbled, thought had brought to himself, and
   mingled need and hope led a suppliant servant - the love of a father,
   which anticipated his confession, and did not even speak the words of
   pardon, conquered, and so morally begat him a second time as his son.
   Here it deserves special notice, as marking the absolute contrast
   between the teaching of Christ and Rabbinism, that we have in one of
   the oldest Rabbinic works [4513] a Parable exactly the reverse of this,
   when the son of a friend is redeemed from bondage, not as a son, but to
   be a slave, that so obedience might be demanded of him. The inference
   drawn is, that the obedience of the redeemed is not that of filial love
   of pardoned, but the enforcement of the claim of a master. How
   otherwise in the Parable and teaching of Christ!

   But even so the story of love has not come to an end. They have reached
   the house. And now the father would not only restore the son, but
   convey to him the evidence of it, and he would do so before, and by the
   servants. The three tokens of wealth and position are to be furnished
   him. Quickly' the servants are to bring forth the stola,' the upper
   garment of the higher classes, and that the first' - the best, and this
   instead of the tattered, coarse raiment of the foreign swineherd.
   Similarly, the finger-ring for his hand, and the sandals for his unshod
   feet, would indicate the son of the house. And to mark this still
   further, the servants were not only to bring these articles, but
   themselves to put them on' the son, so as thereby to own his
   mastership. And yet further, the calf, the fatted one' for this very
   occasion, was to be killed, and there was to be a joyous feast, for
   this' his son was dead, and is come to life again; was lost, and is
   found.' [4514]

   Thus far for the reception of publicans and sinners,' and all in every
   time whom it may concern. Now for the other aspect of the history.
   While this was going on, so continues the Parable, the elder brother
   was still in the field. On his return home, he inquired of a servant
   the reason of the festivities which he heard within the house. Informed
   that his younger brother had come, and the calf long prepared against a
   feast had been killed, because his father had recovered him safe and
   sound,' he was angry, would not go in, and even refused the request to
   that effect of the father, who had come out for the purpose. The harsh
   words of reproach with which he set forth his own apparent wrongs could
   have only one meaning: his father had never rewarded him for his
   services. On the other hand, as soon as this' his son' - whom he will
   not even call his brother - had come back, notwithstanding all his
   disservice, he had made a feast of joy!

   But in this very thing lay the error of the elder son, and - to apply
   it - the fatal mistake of Pharisaism. The elder son regarded all as of
   merit and reward, as work and return. But it is not so. We mark, first,
   that the same tenderness which had welcomed the returning son, now met
   the elder brother. He spoke to the angry man, not in the language of
   merited reproof, but addressed him lovingly as son,' and reasoned with
   him. And then, when he had shown him his wrong, he would fain recall
   him to better feeling by telling him of the other as his brother.'
   [4515] But the main point is this. There can be here no question of
   desert. So long as the son is in His Father's house He gives in His
   great goodness to His child all that is the Father's. But this poor
   lost one - still a son and a brother - he has not got any reward, only
   been taken back again by a Father's love, when he had come back to Him
   in the deep misery of his felt need. This son, or rather, as the other
   should view him, this brother,' had been dead, and was come to life
   again; lost, and was found. And over this it was meet to make merry and
   be glad,' not to murmur. Such murmuring came from thoughts of work and
   pay - wrong in themselves, and foreign to the proper idea of Father and
   son; such joy, from a Father's heart. The elder brother's were the
   thoughts of a servant: [4516] of service and return; the younger
   brother's was the welcome of a son in the mercy and everlasting love of
   a Father. And this to us, and to all time!
     __________________________________________________________________

   [4479] See Book III. ch. xvii.

   [4480] St. Matt. ix. 10, 11.

   [4481] The only other alternative would seem, if one were to narrow the
   underlying ideas in a strictly Predestinarian sense. But this seems not
   only incompatible with the third Parable, where all turns on personal
   resolve, but runs contrary to the whole spirit of these Parables, which
   is not of the exclusion of any, but of the widest inclusion.

   [4482] St. Luke xv. 4.

   [4483] ver. 8.

   [4484] St. Luke xiv. 5.

   [4485] There is to some extent a Rabbinic parallel Parable (Ber. R. 86,
   ed. Warsh. p. 154 b, about the middle), where one who is driving twelve
   animals laden with wine, leaves the eleven and follows the twelfth into
   the shop of a Gentile, for fear that the wine which it bears might be
   mixed there.

   [4486] 1 Pet. ii.25.

   [4487] Siphré, ed. Friedmann, p. 37 a, line 13 from top.

   [4488] In St. Matt. xviii. 12-14, the same Parable is used, but with
   different application - not as here to the loss, but to what men might
   deem the smallness of the loss, with special reference to the command
   in ver. 10 (ver. 11 in the text of our A.V. is spurious).

   [4489] See Note on p. 255 of this chapter.

   [4490] on Ex. iii. 1.

   [4491] Shem. R. 2, ed. Warsh, p. 7 b, about the middle.

   [4492] on Prov. ii. 4.

   [4493] Midr. on Cant. i. 1, ed. Warsh p. 3 a, about the middle.

   [4494] Ber. 34 b about the middle.

   [4495] Is. lxiv. 4.

   [4496] Jer. iii. 12.

   [4497] Debar. R. 2, on Deut. iii. 25, which, in general, contains
   several references to repentance, ed. Warsh. p. 7 b, about the middle.

   [4498] See ch. xvi. Note 1.

   [4499] But in regard to such disinheriting of children, even if they
   were bad, it was said, that the Spirit of Wisdom did not rest on them
   who made such disposition (Baba B. viii. 5).

   [4500] It may be interesting here to quote, in connection with the
   interpretation of Heb. vii. 18, viii. 7-13, this Rabbinic principle: A
   testament makes void a [previous] testament,' Jer. Baba B. 16 b, below.

   [4501] Baba B. viii. 6; Moed K. iii. 3.

   [4502] The present Jewish Law of Inheritance is fully given in Fassel,
   Mos. Rabb. Civil-Recht, vol. i. pp. 274-412.

   [4503] St. Luke xiii. 2, 3.

   [4504] More literally, was glued.' The LXX. translate thus the Hebrew
   {hebrew}, to cleave.'

   [4505] Baba K. 82 b, and the reference to it in the Midrash on Eccles.
   viii. 1.

   [4506] This prohibition is connected by tradition with Maccabean times.

   [4507] Vayyik. R. 35 ed. Warsh., pp. 53 b, 54 a.

   [4508] The fruit of the carob-tree is regarded in Jewish and heathen
   literature as the poorest, and, indeed, only fit for animals. See
   Wetstein ad loc. According to Jewish ideas, it took seventy years
   before the carob-tree bore fruit (Bekhor. 8 a). It is at least doubtful
   whether the tree is mentioned in the Old Testament (the {hebrew} of 2
   Sam. v. 23, 24). In the Mishnah it is frequently referred to (Peah i.
   5; Shabb. xxiv. 2; Baba B. ii. 7). Its fruit seems to have been the
   food of ascetics, such as Chanina b. Dosa, &c. (Ber. 17 b), and Simeon
   b. Jochai (Shabb. 33 b), even as it had been that of John the Baptist.
   Its leaves seem on occasions to have been used as writing-material
   (Tos. Gitt. 2).

   [4509] Other terms were also substituted (such as Might,' Mercy,' &c.)
   - with the view of avoiding needless mention of the Deity.

   [4510] St. Luke xv. 23.

   [4511] Or kissed him much,' katephlesen atn.

   [4512] ver. 21. See marg. of R. V.

   [4513] Siphré, ed. Friedm. p. 35 a.

   [4514] Thus the text correctly. As it seems to me, the words do not, in
   the first place, point to a moral change. Dogmatically, the inference
   is no doubt correct, but, as Goebel remarks, they would scarcely have,
   in that sense, been addressed to the servants.

   [4515] St. Luke xv. 32.

   [4516] It may be worth mentioning a somewhat similar parable in Bemidb.
   R. 15 (ed. Warsh. p. 62 b, near beginning). Reference is made to the
   fact, that, according to Numb. vii., all the twelve tribes brought
   gifts, except Levi. Upon that follows in Numb. viii. the consecration
   of the Levites to the service of the Lord. The Midrash likens it to a
   feast which a king had made for all the people, but to which he does
   not bid his special friend. And while the latter seems to fear that
   this exclusion may imply disfavour, the king has a special feast for
   his friend only, and shows him that while the common meal was for all,
   the special feast is for those he specially loves.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XVIII.
THE UNJUST STEWARD - DIVES AND LAZARUS - JEWISH AGRICULTURAL NOTES - PRICES OF
PRODUCE - WRITING AND LEGAL DOCUMENTS - PURPLE AND FINE LINEN - JEWISH NOTIONS
OF HADES.

   (St. Luke xvi.)

   Although widely differing in their object and teaching, the last group
   of Parables spoken during this part of Christ's Ministry are, at least
   outwardly, connected by a leading thought. The word by which we would
   string them together is Righteousness. There are three Parables of the
   Unrighteous: the Unrighteous Steward, the Unrighteous Owner, and the
   Unrighteous Dispenser, or Judge. And these are followed by two other
   Parables of the Self-righteous: Self-righteousness in its Ignorance,
   and its dangers as regards oneself; and Self-righteousness in its
   Harshness, and its dangers as regards others. But when this outward
   connection has been marked, we have gone the utmost length. Much more
   close is the internal connection between some of them.

   We note it, first and chiefly, between the two first Parables. Recorded
   in the same chapter, [4517] and in the same connection, they were
   addressed to the same audience. True, the Parable of the Unjust Steward
   was primarily spoken to His disciples,' [4518] that of Dives and
   Lazarus to the Pharisees. [4519] But then the audience of Christ at
   that time consisted of disciples and Pharisees. And these two classes
   in the audience stood in peculiar relation to each other, which is
   exactly met in these two Parables, so that the one may be said to have
   sprung out of the other. For, the disciples,' to whom the first Parable
   was addressed, were not primarily the Apostles, but those publicans and
   sinners' whom Jesus had received, to the great displeasure of the
   Pharisees. [4520] Them He would teach concerning the Mamon of
   unrighteousness. And, when the Pharisees sneered at this teaching, He
   would turn it against them, and show that, beneath the
   self-justification, [4521] which made them forget that now the Kingdom
   of God was opened to all, [4522] and imagine that they were the sole
   vindicators of a Law [4523] which in their everyday practice they
   notoriously broke, [4524] there lay as deep sin and as great alienation
   from God as that of the sinners whom they despised. Theirs might not be
   the Mamon of, yet it might be that for unrighteousness; and, while they
   sneered at the idea of such men making of their Mamon friends that
   would receive them into everlasting tabernacles, themselves would
   experience that in the end a terrible readjustment before God would
   follow on their neglect of using for God, and their employment only for
   self of such Mamon as was theirs, coupled as it was with harsh and
   proud neglect of what they regarded as wretched, sore-covered Lazarus,
   who lay forsaken and starving at their very doors.

   It will have been observed, that we lay once more special stress on the
   historical connection and the primary meaning of the Parables. We would
   read them in the light of the circumstances in which they were spoken -
   as addressed to a certain class of hearers, and as referring to what
   had just passed. The historical application once ascertained, the
   general lessons may afterwards be applied to the widest range. This
   historical view will help us to understand the introduction,
   connection, and meaning, of the two Parables which have been described
   as the most difficult: those of the Unjust Steward, [4525] and of Dives
   and Lazarus.

   At the outset we must recall, that they were addressed to two different
   classes in the same audience. In both the subject is Unrighteousness.
   In the first, which is addressed to the recently converted publicans
   and sinners, it is the Unrighteous Steward, making unrighteous use of
   what had been committed to his administration by his Master; in the
   second Parable, which is addressed to the self-justifying, sneering
   Pharisees, it is the Unrighteous Possessor, who uses only for himself
   and for time what he has, while he leaves Lazarus, who, in his view, is
   wretched and sore-covered, to starve or perish, unheeded, at his very
   door. In agreement with its object, and as suited to the part of the
   audience addressed, the first Parable points a lesson, while the second
   furnishes a warning. In the first Parable we are told, what the sinner
   when converted should learn from his previous life of sin; in the
   second, what the self-deceiving, proud Pharisee should learn as
   regarded the life which to him seemed so fair, but was in reality so
   empty of God and of love. It follows - and this is of greatest
   importance, especially in the interpretation of the first Parable -
   that we must not expect to find spiritual equivalents for each of the
   persons or incidents introduced. In each case, the Parable itself forms
   only an illustration of the lessons, spoken or implied, which Christ
   would convey to the one and the other class in His audience.

   I. The Parable of the Unjust Steward. - In accordance with the canon of
   interpretation just laid down, we distinguish - 1. The illustrative
   Parable. [4526] 2. Its moral. [4527] 3. Its application in the
   combination of the moral with some of the features of the Parable.
   [4528]

   1. The illustrative Parable. [4529] This may be said to converge to the
   point brought out in the concluding verse: [4530] the prudence which
   characterises the dealings of the children of this world in regard to
   their own generation, or, to translate the Jewish forms of expression
   into our own phraseology, the wisdom with which those who care not for
   the world to come choose the means most effectual for attaining their
   worldly objects. It is this prudence by which their aims are so
   effectually secured, and it alone, which is set before the children of
   light,' as that by which to learn. And the lesson is the more
   practical, that those primarily addressed had hitherto been among these
   men of the world. Let them learn from the serpent its wisdom, and from
   the dove its harmlessness; from the children of this world, their
   prudence as regarded their generation, while, as children of the new
   light, they must remember the higher aim for which that prudence was to
   be employed. Thus would that Mamon which is of unrighteousness,' and
   which certainly faileth,' become to us treasure in the world to come -
   welcome us there, and, so far from failing,' prove permanent - welcome
   us in everlasting tabernacles. Thus, also, shall we have made friends
   of the Mamon of unrighteousness,' and that, which from its nature must
   fail, become eternal gain - or, to translate it into Talmudic
   phraseology, it will be of the things of which a man enjoys the
   interest in this world, while the capital remains for the world to
   come.

   It cannot now be difficult to understand the Parable. Its object is
   simply to show, in the most striking manner, the prudence of a worldly
   man, who is unrestrained by any other consideration than that of
   attaining his end. At the same time, with singular wisdom, the
   illustration is so chosen as that its matter (materia), the Mamon of
   unrighteousness,' may serve to point a life-lesson to those newly
   converted publicans and sinners, who had formerly sacrificed all for
   the sake, or in the enjoyment of, that Mamon. All else, such as the
   question, who is the master and who the steward, and such like, we
   dismiss, since the Parable is only intended as an illustration of the
   lesson to be afterwards taught.

   The connection between this Parable and what the Lord had previously
   said concerning returning sinners, to which our remarks have already
   pointed, is further evidenced by the use of the term wasting'
   (diaskorpzon), in the charge against the steward, just as the prodigal
   son had wasted' (dieskrpise) his substance. [4531] Only, in the present
   instance, the property had been entrusted to his administration. As
   regards the owner, his designation as rich' seems intended to mark how
   large was the property committed to the steward. The steward' was not,
   as in St. Luke xii. 42-46, a slave, but one employed for the
   administration cf the rich man's affairs, subject to notice of
   dismissal. [4532] He was accused - the term implying malevolence, but
   not necessarily a false charge - not of fraud, but of wasting, probably
   by riotous living and carelessness, his master's goods. And his master
   seems to have convinced himself that the charge was true, since he at
   once gives him notice of dismissal. The latter is absolute, and not
   made dependent on the account of his stewardship,' which is only asked
   as, of course, necessary, when he gives up his office. Nor does the
   steward either deny the charge or plead any extenuation. His great
   concern rather is, during the time still left of his stewardship,
   before he gives up his accounts, to provide for his future support. The
   only alternative before him in the future is that of manual labour or
   mendicancy. But for the former he has not strength; from the latter he
   is restrained by shame.

   Then it is that his prudence' suggests a device by which, after his
   dismissal, he may, without begging, be received into the houses of
   those whom he has made friends. [4533] It must be borne in mind, that
   he is still steward, and, as such, has full power of disposing of his
   master's affairs. When, therefore, he sends for one after another of
   his master's debtors, and tells each to alter the sum in the bond, he
   does not suggest to them forgery or fraud, but, in remitting part of
   the debt - whether it had been incurred as rent in kind, or as the
   price of produce purchased - he acts, although unrighteously, yet
   strictly within his rights. Thus, neither the steward nor the debtors
   could be charged with criminality, and the master must have been struck
   with the cleverness of a man who had thus secured a future provision by
   making friends, so long as he had the means of so doing (ere his Mamon
   of unrighteousness failed).

   A few archæological notices may help the interpretation of details.
   From the context it seems more likely, that the bonds,' or rather
   writings,' of these debtors were written acknowledgements of debt,
   than, as some have supposed that they were, leases of farms. The debts
   over which the steward variously disposed, according as he wished to
   gain more or less favour, were considerable. In the first case they are
   stated at a hundred Bath of oil,' in the second as a hundred Cor of
   wheat.' In regard to these quantities we have the preliminary
   difficulty, that three kinds of measurement were in use in Palestine -
   that of the Wilderness,' or, the original Mosaic; that of Jerusalem,'
   which was more than a fifth larger; and that of Sepphoris, probably the
   common Galilean measurement, which, in turn, was more than a fifth
   larger than the Jerusalem measure. [4534] To be more precise, one
   Galilean was equal to 3/2 Wilderness' measures. Assuming the
   measurement to have been the Galilean, one Bath [4535] would have been
   equal to an Attic Metrêtês, or about 39 litres. On the other hand, the
   so-called Wilderness measurement' would correspond with the Roman
   measures, and, in that case, the Bath' would be the same as the
   Amphora, or amount to a little less than 26 litres. [4536] The latter
   is the measurement adopted by Josephus. [4537] [4538] In the Parable,
   the first debtor was owing 100 of these Bath,' or, according to the
   Galilean measurement, about 3,900 litres of oil. As regards the value
   of a Bath of oil, little information can be derived from the statements
   of Josephus, since he only mentions prices under exceptional
   circumstances, either in particularly plentiful years, [4539] or else
   at a time of war and siege. [4540] In the former, an Amphora, or 26
   litres, of oil seems to have fetched about 9d.; but it must be added,
   that, even in such a year, this represents a rare stroke of business,
   since the oil was immediately afterwards re-sold for eight times the
   amount, and this - 3s. for half an Amphora of about 13 litres - would
   probably represent an exceptionally high war-price. The fair price for
   it would probably have been 9d. For the Mishnah informs us, that the
   ordinary earthenware casks' (the Gerabh) held each 2 Seah, or 48 Log,
   or about 26 litres. [4541] Again, according to a notice in the Talmud,
   [4542] 100 such casks,' or, 200 Seah, were sold for 10 (presumably
   gold) dinars, or 250 silver dinars, equal to about 7l. 10s. of our
   money. And as the Bath (= 3 Seah) held a third more than one of those
   casks,' or Gerabhin, the value of the 100 Bath of oil would probably
   amount to about 10l. of our money, and the remission of the steward, of
   course, to 5l.

   The second debtor owed a hundred Cor of wheat' - that is, in dry
   measure, ten times the amount of the oil of the first debtor, since the
   Cor was ten Ephah or Bath, the Ephah three Seah, the Seah six Qabh, and
   the Qabh four Log. This must be borne in mind, since the dry and the
   fluid measures were precisely the same; and here, also, their threefold
   computation (the Wilderness,' the Jerusalem,' and the Galilean')
   obtained. As regards the value of wheat, we learn [4543] that, on an
   average, four Seah of seed were expected to produce one Cor - that is,
   seven and a half times their amount; and that a field 1,500 cubits long
   and 50 wide was expected to grow a Cor. The average price of a Cor of
   wheat, bought uncut, amounted to about 25 dinars, or 15s. Striking an
   average between the lowest prices mentioned [4544] and the highest,
   [4545] we infer that the price of 3 Seah or an Ephah would be from two
   shillings to half-a-crown, and accordingly of a Cor (or 10 Ephah) from
   20 to 25 shillings (probably this is rather more than it would cost).
   On this computation the hundred Cor would represent a debt of from
   100l. to 125l., and the remission of the steward (of 20 Cor), a sum of
   from 20l. to 25l. Comparatively small as these sums may seem, they are
   in reality large, remembering the value of money in Palestine, which,
   on a low computation, would be five times as great as in our own
   country. [4546] These two debtors are only mentioned as instances, and
   so the unjust steward would easily secure for himself friends by the
   Mamon of unrighteousness,' the term Mamon, [4547] we may note, being
   derived from the Syriac and Rabbinic word of the same kind ({hebrew},
   from {hebrew}={hebrew}, {hebrew}, to apportion). [4548]

   Another point on which acquaintance with the history and habits of
   those times throws light is, how the debtors could so easily alter the
   sum mentioned in their respective bonds. For, the text implies that
   this, and not the writing of a new bond, is intended; since in that
   case the old one would have been destroyed, and not given back for
   alteration. It would be impossible, within the present limits, to enter
   fully on the interesting subject of writing, writing-materials, and
   written documents among the ancient Jews. [4549] Suffice it to give
   here the briefest notices.

   The materials on which the Jews wrote were of the most divers kind:
   leaves, as of olives, palms, the carob, &c.; the rind of the
   pomegranate, the shell of walnuts, &c.; the prepared skins of animals
   (leather and parchment); and the product of the papyrus, used long
   before the time of Alexander the Great for the manufacture of paper,
   and known in Talmudic writings by the same name, as Papir [4550] or
   Apipeir, [4551] but more frequently by that of Nayyar - probably from
   the stripes (Nirin) of the plant of which it was made. [4552] But what
   interests us more, as we remember the tablet' (pinakdion) on which
   Zacharias wrote the name of the future Baptist, [4553] is the
   circumstance that it bears not only the same name, Pinaqes or Pinqesa,
   but that it seems to have been of such common use in Palestine. [4554]
   . It consisted of thin pieces of wood (the Luach) fastened or strung
   together. The Mishnah [4555] enumerates three kinds of them: those
   where the wood was covered with papyrus, [4556] those where it was
   covered with wax, and those where the wood was left plain to be written
   on with ink. The latter was of different kinds. Black ink was prepared
   of soot (the Deyo), or of vegetable or mineral substances. [4557] Gum
   Arabic and Egyptian (Qumos and Quma) and vitriol (Qanqanthos) seem also
   to have been used [4558] in writing. It is curious to read of writing
   in colours and with red ink or Siqra, [4559] and even of a kind of
   sympathetic ink, made from the bark of the ash, and brought out by a
   mixture of vitriol and gum. [4560] We also read of a gold-ink, as that
   in which the copy of the Law was written which, according to the
   legend, the High-Priest had sent to Ptolemy Philadelphus for the
   purpose of being translated into Greek by the LXX. [4561] But the
   Talmud prohibits copies of the Law in gold letters, [4562] or more
   probably such in which the Divine Name was written in gold letters.
   [4563] [4564] In writing, a pen, Qolemos, made of reed (Qaneh [4565] )
   was used, and the reference in an Apostolic Epistle [4566] to writing
   with ink and pen' (di mlanos ka kalmou) finds even its verbal
   counterpart in the Midrash, which speaks of Milanin and Qolemin (ink
   and pens). Indeed, the public writer' - a trade very common in the East
   [4567] - went about with a Qolemos, or reed-pen, behind his ear, as a
   badge of his employment. [4568] [4569] With the reed-pen we ought to
   mention its necessary accompaniments: the penknife, [4570] the inkstand
   (which, when double, for black and red ink, was sometimes made of
   earthenware, Qalamarim [4571] ), and the ruler [4572] - it being
   regarded by the stricter set as unlawful to write any words of Holy
   Writ on any unlined material, no doubt to ensure correct writing and
   reading. [4573] [4574]

   In all this we have not referred to the practice of writing on leather
   specially prepared with salt and flour, [4575] nor to the Qelaph, or
   parchment in the stricter sense. [4576] For we are here chiefly
   interested in the common mode of writing, that on the Pinaqes, or
   tablet,' and especially on that covered with wax. Indeed, a little
   vessel holding wax was generally attached to it (Pinaqes sheyesh bo
   beth Qibbul shaavah [4577] ). On such a tablet they wrote, of course,
   not with a reed-pen, but with a stylus, generally of iron. This
   instrument consisted of two parts, which might be detached from each
   other: the hard pointed writer' (Kothebh), and the blotter' (Mocheq)
   which was flat and thick for smoothing out letters and words which had
   been written or rather graven in the wax. [4578] There can be no
   question that acknowledgments of debt, and other transactions, were
   ordinarily written down on such wax-covered tablets; for not only is
   direct reference made to it, [4579] but there are special provisions in
   regard to documents where there are such erasures, or rather
   effacements: such as, that they require to be noted in the document,
   [4580] under what conditions and how the witnesses are in such cases to
   affix their signatures, [4581] just as there are particular injunctions
   how witnesses who could not write are to affix their mark.

   But although we have thus ascertained that the bonds' in the Parable
   must have been written on wax - or else, possibly, on parchment - where
   the Mocheq, or blotter, could easily efface the numbers, we have also
   evidence that they were not, as so often, written on tablets' (the
   Pinaques). For, the Greek term, by which these bonds' or writings' are
   designated in the Parable (grmmata [4582] ), is the same as is
   sometimes used in Rabbinic writings (Gerammation) for an acknowledgment
   of debt; [4583] [4584] the Hebraised Greek word corresponding to the
   more commonly used (Syriac) term Shitre (Shetar), which also primarily
   denotes writings,' and is used specifically for such acknowledgments.
   [4585] [4586] Of these there were two kinds. The most formal Shetar was
   not signed by the debtor at all, but only by the witnesses, who were to
   write their names (or marks) immediately (not more than two lines)
   below the text of the document, to prevent fraud. Otherwise, the
   document would not possess legal validity. Generally, it was further
   attested by the Sanhedrin [4587] of three, who signed in such manner as
   not to leave even one line vacant. [4588] Such a document contained the
   names of creditor and debtor, the amount owing, and the date, together
   with a clause attaching the property of the debtor. In fact, it was a
   kind of mortgage; all sale of property being, as with us, subject to
   such a mortgage, [4589] which bore the name Acharayuth (probably,
   guarantee' [4590] ) When the debt was paid, the legal obligation was
   simply returned to the debtor; if paid in part, either a new bond was
   written, or a receipt given, which was called Shobher [4591] or
   Tebhara, because it broke' the debt.

   But in many respects different were those bonds which were
   acknowledgements of debt for purchases made, such as we suppose those
   to have been which are mentioned in the Parable. In such cases it was
   not uncommon to dispense altogether with witnesses, and the document
   was signed by the debtor himself. In bonds of this kind, the creditor
   had not the benefit of a mortgage in case of sale. We have expressed
   our belief that the Parable refers to such documents, and we are
   confirmed in this by the circumstance that they not only bear a
   different name from the more formal bonds (the Shitre), but one which
   is perhaps the most exact rendering of the Greek term ({hebrew}, [4592]
   a writing of hand,' note of hand' [4593] ). For completeness' sake we
   add, in regard to the farming of land, that two kinds of leases were in
   use. Under the first, called Shetar Arisuth, the lessee (Aris = oros
   [4594] ) received a certain portion of the produce. He might be a
   lessee for life, for a specified number of years, or even a hereditary
   tiller of the ground; or he might sub-let it to another person. [4595]
   Under the second kind of lease, the farmer - or Meqabbel - entered into
   a contract for payment either in kind, when he undertook to pay a
   stipulated and unvarying amount of produce, in which case he was called
   a Chokher (Chakhur or Chakhira [4596] ), or else a certain annual
   rental in money, when he was called a Sokher. [4597]

   2. From this somewhat lengthened digression, we return to notice the
   moral of the Parable. [4598] It is put in these words: Make to
   yourselves friends out of [by means of] the Mamon of unrighteousness,
   that, when it shall fail, [4599] they may receive you into everlasting
   tabernacles.' From what has been previously stated, the meaning of
   these words offers little serious difficulty. We must again recall the
   circumstances, that they were primarily addressed to converted
   publicans and sinners, to whom the expression Mamon of unrighteousness'
   - of which there are close analogies, and even an exact transcript
   [4600] in the Targum - would have an obvious meaning. Among us, also,
   there are not a few who may feel its aptness as they look back on the
   past, while to all it carries a much needed warning. Again, the
   addition of the definite article leaves no doubt, that the everlasting
   tabernacles' mean the well-known heavenly home; in which sense the term
   tabernacle' is, indeed, already used in the Old Testament. [4601]
   [4602] But as a whole we regard it (as previously hinted) as an
   adaptation to the Parable of the well-known Rabbinic saying, that there
   were certain graces of which a man enjoyed the benefit here, while the
   capital, so to speak, remained for the next world. And if a more
   literal interpretation were demanded, we cannot but feel the duty
   incumbent on those converted publicans, nay, in a sense, on us all, to
   seek to make for ourselves of the Mamon - be it of money, of knowledge,
   of strength, or opportunities, which to many has, and to all may so
   easily, become that of unrighteousness' - such lasting and spiritual
   application: gain such friends by means of it, that, when it fails,' as
   fail it must when we die, all may not be lost, but rather meet us in
   heaven. Thus would each deed done for God with this Mamon become a
   friend to greet us as we enter the eternal world.

   3. The suitableness both of the Parable and of its application to the
   audience of Christ appears from its similarity to what occurs in Jewish
   writings. Thus, the reasoning that the Law could not have been given to
   the nations of the world, since they have not observed the seven
   Noachic commandments (which Rabbinism supposes to have been given to
   the Gentiles), is illustrated by a Parable in which a king is
   represented as having employed two administrators (Apiterophin); one
   over the gold and silver, and the other over the straw. The latter
   rendered himself suspected, and - continues the Parable - when he
   complained that he had not been set over the gold and silver, they said
   unto him: Thou fool, if thou hast rendered thyself suspected in regard
   to the straw, shall they commit to thee the treasure of gold and
   silver? [4603] And we almost seem to hear the very words of Christ: He
   that is faithful [4604] in that which is least, is faithful also in
   much,' in this of the Midrash: The Holy One, blessed be His Name, does
   not give great things to a man until he has been tried in a small
   matter;' which is illustrated by the history of Moses and of David, who
   were both called to rule from the faithful guiding of sheep. [4605]

   Considering that the Jewish mind would be familiar with such modes of
   illustration, there could have been no misunderstanding of the words of
   Christ. These converted publicans might think - and so may some of us -
   that theirs was a very narrow sphere of service, one of little
   importance; or else, like the Pharisees, and like so many others among
   us, that faithful administration of the things of this world (the Mamon
   of unrighteousness') had no bearing on the possession of the true
   riches in the next world. In answer to the first difficulty, Christ
   points out that the principle of service is the same, whether applied
   to much or to little; that the one was, indeed, meet preparation for,
   and, in truth, the test of the other. [4606] He that is faithful' - or,
   to paraphrase the word (pists), he that has proved himself, is
   accredited (answering to {hebrew}) - in the least, is also faithful
   [accredited] in much; and who in the least is unjust is also in much
   unjust.' Therefore, if a man failed in faithful service of God in his
   worldly matters - in the language of the Parable, if he were not
   faithful in the Mamon of unrighteousness - could he look for the true
   Mamon, or riches of the world to come? Would not his unfaithfulness in
   the lower stewardship imply unfitness for the higher? And - still in
   the language of the Parable - if they had not proved faithful in mere
   stewardship, in that which was another's,' could it be expected that
   they would be exalted from stewardship to proprietorship? And the
   ultimate application of all was this, that dividedness was impossible
   in the service of God. [4607] It is impossible for the disciple to make
   separation between spiritual matters and worldly, and to attempt
   serving God in the one and Mamon in the other. There is absolutely no
   such distinction to the disciple, and our common usage of the words
   secular and spiritual is derived from a terrible misunderstanding and
   mistake. To the secular, nothing is spiritual; and to the spiritual,
   nothing is secular: No servant can serve two Masters; ye cannot serve
   God and Mamon.

   II. The Parable of Dives and Lazarus. [4608] - Although primarily
   spoken to the Pharisees, and not to the disciples, yet, as will
   presently appear, it was spoken for the disciples. The words of Christ
   had touched more than one sore spot in the hearts of the Pharisees.
   This consecration of all to God as the necessary condition of high
   spiritual service, and then of higher spiritual standing - as it were
   ownership' - such as they claimed, was a very hard saying. It touched
   their covetousness. They would have been quite ready to hear, nay, they
   believed that the true' treasure had been committed to their trust. But
   that its condition was, that they should prove themselves God-devoted
   in the unrighteous Mamon,' faithful in the employment of it in that for
   which it was entrusted to their stewardship, this was not to be borne.
   Nor yet, that such prospects should be held out to publicans and
   sinners, while they were withheld from those who were the custodians of
   the Law and of the Prophets. But were they faithful to the Law? And as
   to their claim of being the owners,' the Parable of the Rich Owner and
   of his bearing would exhibit how unfaithful they were in much' as well
   as in little,' in what they claimed as owners as well as in their
   stewardship - and this, on their own showing of their relations to
   publicans and sinners: the Lazarus who lay at their doors.

   Thus viewed, the verses which introduce the second Parable (that of
   Dives and Lazarus) will appear, not detached sayings,' as some
   commentators would have us believe, but most closely connected with the
   Parable to which they form the Preface. Only, here especially, must we
   remember, that we have only Notes of Christ's Discourse, made years
   before by one who had heard it, and containing the barest outline - as
   it were, the stepping-stones - of the argument as it proceeded. Let us
   try to follow it. As the Pharisees heard what Christ said, their
   covetousness was touched. It is said, moreover, that they derided Him -
   literally, turned up their noses at Him.' [4609] The mocking gestures,
   with which they pointed to His publican-disciples, would be accompanied
   by mocking words in which they would extol and favourably compare their
   own claims and standing with that of those new disciples of Christ. Not
   only to refute but to confute, to convict, and, if possible, to
   convince them, was the object of Christ's Discourse and Parable. One by
   one their pleas were taken up and shown to be utterly untenable. They
   were persons who by outward righteousness and pretences sought to
   appear just before men, but God knew their hearts; and that which was
   exalted among men, their Pharisaic standing and standing aloof, was
   abomination before Him. [4610] These two points form the main subject
   of the Parable. Its first object was to show the great difference
   between the before men' and the before God;' between Dives as he
   appears to men in this world, and as he is before God and will be in
   the next world. Again, the second main object of the Parable was to
   illustrate that their Pharisaic standing and standing aloof - the
   bearing of Dives in reference to a Lazarus - which was the glory of
   Pharisaism before men, was an abomination before God. Yet a third
   object of the Parable was in reference to their covetousness, the
   selfish use which they made of their possessions - their Mamon. But a
   selfish was an unrighteous use; and, as such, would meet with sorer
   retribution than in the case of an unfaithful steward.

   But we leave for the prseent the comparative analysis of the Parable to
   return to the introductory words of Christ. Having shown that the
   claims of the Pharisees and their standing aloof from poor sinners were
   an abomination before God, Christ combats these grounds of their
   bearing, that they were the custodians and observers of the Law and of
   the Prophets, while those poor sinners had no claims upon the Kingdom
   of God. Yes - but the Law and the Prophets had their terminus ad quem
   in John the Baptist, who brought the good tidings of the Kingdom of
   God.' Since then every one' had to enter it by personal resolution and
   force.' [4611] Yes - it was true that the Law could not fail in one
   tittle of it. [4612] But, notoriously and in everyday life, the
   Pharisees, who thus spoke of the Law and appealed to it, were the
   constant and open breakers of it. Witness here their teaching and
   practice concerning divorce, which really involved a breach of the
   seventh commandment. [4613]

   Thus, when bearing in mind that, as previously stated, we have here
   only the heads,' or rather the stepping stones,' of Christ's argument -
   from notes by a hearer at the time, which were afterwards given to St.
   Luke - we clearly perceive, how closely connected are the seemingly
   disjointed sentences which preface the Parable, and how aptly they
   introduce it. The Parable itself is strictly of the Pharisees and their
   relation to the publicans and sinners' whom they despised, and to whose
   stewardship they opposed thoughts of their own proprietorship. With
   infinite wisdom and depth the Parable tells in two directions: in
   regard to their selfish use of the literal riches - their covetousness
   - and in regard to their selfish use of the figurative riches: their
   Pharisaic righteousness, which left poor Lazarus at their door to the
   dogs and to famine, not bestowing on him aught from their supposed rich
   festive banquets.

   On the other hand, it will be necessary in the interpretation of this
   Parable to keep in mind, that its Parabolic details must not be
   exploited, nor doctrines of any kind derived from them, either as to
   the character of the other world, the question of the duration of
   future punishments, or the possible moral improvement of those in
   Gehinnom. All such things are foreign to the Parable, which is only
   intended as a type, or exemplification and illustration, of what is
   intended to be taught. And, if proof were required, it would surely be
   enough to remind ourselves, that this Parable is addressed to the
   Pharisees, to whom Christ would scarcely have communicated details
   about the other world, on which He was so reticent in His teaching to
   the disciples. The Parable naturally falls into three parts.

   1. Dives and Lazarus before and after death, [4614] or the contrast
   between before men' and before God;' the unrighteous use of riches -
   literal and figurative; and the relations of the Pharisaic Dives to the
   publican Lazarus, as before men and as before God: the exalted among
   men' an abomination before God.' And the application of the Parable is
   here the more telling, that alms were so highly esteemed among the
   Pharisees, and that the typical Pharisee is thus set before them as, on
   their own showing, the typical sinner.

   The Parable opens by presenting to us a rich man' clothed in purple and
   byssus, joyously faring every day in splendor.' All here is in
   character. His dress is described as the finest and most costly, for
   byssus and purple were the most expensive materials, only inferior to
   silk, which, if genuine and unmixed - for at least three kinds of silk
   are mentioned in ancient Jewish writings - was worth its weight in
   gold. Both byssus - of which it is not yet quite certain, whether it
   was of hemp or cotton - and purple were indeed manufactured in
   Palestine, but the best byssus (at least at that time [4615] ) came
   from Egypt and India. The white garments of the High-Priest on the Day
   of Atonement were made of it. [4616] To pass over exaggerated accounts
   of its costliness, [4617] the High-Priest's dress of Pelusian linen for
   the morning service of the Day of Atonement was said to have cost about
   36l.; that of Indian linen for the evening of the same day about 24l.
   Of course, this stuff would, if of home-manufacture, whether made in
   Galilee or in Judæa, [4618] be much cheaper. As regarded purple, which
   was obtained from the coasts of Tyre, [4619] wool of violet-purple was
   sold about that period by weight [4620] at the rate of about 3l. the
   Roman pound, though it would, of course, considerably vary in price.

   Quite in accordance with this luxuriousness - unfortunately not
   uncommon among the very high-placed Jews, since the Talmud (though, no
   doubt, exaggeratedly) speaks of the dress of a corrupt High-Priest as
   having cost upwards of 300l. [4621] - was the feasting every day, the
   description of which conveys the impression of company, merriment, and
   splendour. All this is, of course, intended to set forth the selfish
   use which this man made of his wealth, and to point the contrast of his
   bearing towards Lazarus. Here also every detail is meant to mark the
   pitiableness of the case, as it stood out before Dives. The very name -
   not often mentioned in any other real, and never in any other Parabolic
   story - tells it: Lazarus, Laazar, a common abbreviation of Elazar, as
   it were, God help him!' Then we read that he was cast' [4622] (bbleto)
   at his gateway, as if to mark that the bearers were glad to throw down
   their unwelcome burden. [4623] Laid there, he was in full view of the
   Pharisee as he went out or came in, or sat in his courtyard. And as he
   looked at him, he was covered with a loathsome disease; as he heard
   him, he uttered a piteous request to be filled with what fell from the
   rich man's table. Yet nothing was done to help his bodily misery, and,
   as the word desiring' (pithumn) implies, his longing for the crumbs'
   remained unsatisfied. So selfish in the use of his wealth was Dives, so
   wretched Lazarus in his view; so self-satisfied and unpitying was the
   Pharisee, so miserable in his sight and so needy the publican and
   sinner. Yea, even the dogs came and licked his sores' - for it is not
   to be understood as an alleviation, but as an aggravation of his ills,
   that he was left to the dogs, which in Scripture are always represented
   as unclean animals.

   So it was before men. But how was it before God? There the relation was
   reversed. The beggar died - no more of him here. But the Angels carried
   him away into Abraham's bosom.' Leaving aside for the present [4624]
   the Jewish teaching concerning the after death,' we are struck with the
   sublime simplicity of the figurative language used by Christ, as
   compared with the wild and sensuous fancies of later Rabbinic teaching
   on the subject. It is, indeed, true, that we must not look in this
   Parabolic language for Christ's teaching about the after death.' On the
   other hand, while He would say nothing that was essentially divergent
   from, at least, the purest views entertained on the subject at that
   time - since otherwise the object of the Parabolic illustration would
   have been lost - yet, whatever He did say must, when stripped of its
   Parabolic details, be consonant with fact. Thus, the carrying up of the
   soul of the righteous by Angels is certainly in accordance with Jewish
   teaching, though stripped of all legendary details, such as about the
   number and the greetings of the Angels. [4625] But it is also fully in
   accordance with Christian thought of the ministry of Angels. Again, as
   regards the expression Abraham's bosom,' it occurs, although not
   frequently, in Jewish writings. [4626] [4627] On the other hand, the
   appeal to Abraham as our father is so frequent, his presence and merits
   are so constantly invoked; notably, he is so expressly designated as he
   who receives ({hebrew}) the penitent into Paradise, [4628] that we can
   see how congruous especially to the higher Jewish teaching, which dealt
   not in coarsely sensuous descriptions of Gan Eden, or Paradise, the
   phrase Abraham's bosom' must have been. Nor surely can it be necessary
   to vindicate the accord with Christian thinking of a figurative
   expression, that likens us to children lying lovingly in the bosom of
   Abraham as our spiritual father.

   2. Dives and Lazarus after death: [4629] The great contrast' fully
   realised, and how to enter into the Kingdom. - Here also the main
   interest centres in Dives. He also has died and been buried. Thus ends
   all his exaltedness before men. The next scene is in Hades or Sheol,
   the place of the disembodied spirits before the final Judgment. It
   consists of two divisions: the one of consolation, with all the
   faithful gathered unto Abraham as their father; the other of fiery
   torment. Thus far in accordance with the general teaching of the New
   Testament. As regards the details, they evidently represent the views
   current at the time among the Jews. According to them, the Garden of
   Eden and the Tree of Life were the abode of the blessed. [4630] Nay, in
   common belief, the words of Gen. ii. 10: a river went out of Eden to
   water the garden,' indicated that this Eden was distinct from, and
   superior to, the garden in which Adam had been originally placed.
   [4631] With reference to it, we read that the righteous in Gan Eden see
   the wicked in Gehinnom, and rejoice; [4632] and, similarly, that the
   wicked in Gehinnom see the righteous sitting beautified in Gan Eden,
   and their souls are troubled. [4633] Still more marked is the
   parallelism in a legend told [4634] about two wicked companions, of
   whom one had died impenitent, while the other on seeing it had
   repented. After death, the impenitent in Gehinnom saw the happiness of
   his former companion, and murmured. When told that the difference of
   their fate was due to the other's penitence, he wished to have space
   assigned for it, but was informed that this life (the eve of the
   Sabbath) was the time for making provision for the next (the Sabbath).
   Again, it is consonant with what were the views of the Jews, that
   conversations could be held between dead persons, of which several
   legendary instances are given in the Talmud. [4635] [4636] The torment,
   especially of thirst, of the wicked, is repeatedly mentioned in Jewish
   writings. Thus, in one place, [4637] the fable of Tantalus is
   apparently repeated. The righteous is seen beside delicious springs,
   and the wicked with his tongue parched at the brink of a river, the
   waves of which are constantly receding from him. [4638] But there is
   this very marked and characteristic contrast, that in the Jewish legend
   the beatified is a Pharisee, while the sinner tormented with thirst is
   a Publican! Above all, and as marking the vast difference between
   Jewish ideas and Christ's teaching, we notice that there is no analogy
   in Rabbinic writings to the statement in the Parable, that there is a
   wide and impassable gulf between Paradise and Gehenna.

   To return to the Parable. When we read that Dives in torments lifted up
   his eyes,' it was, no doubt, for help, or, at least, alleviation. Then
   he first perceived and recognised the reversed relationship. The text
   emphatically repeats here: And he,' - literally, this one (ka atos), as
   if now, for the first time, he realised, but only to misunderstand and
   misapply it, how easily superabundance might minister relief to extreme
   need - calling (viz., upon = invoking) said: "Father Abraham, have
   mercy upon me, and send Lazarus."' The invocation of Abraham, as having
   the power, and of Abraham as Father,' was natural on the part of a Jew.
   And our Lord does not here express what really was, but only introduces
   Jews as speaking in accordance with the popular notions. Accordingly,
   it does not necessarily imply on the part of Dives either glorification
   of carnal descent (gloriatio carnis, as Bengel has it), nor a latent
   idea that he might still dispose of Lazarus. A Jew would have appealed
   to Father Abraham' under such or like circumstances, and many analogous
   statements might be quoted in proof. But all the more telling is it,
   that the rich Pharisee should behold in the bosom of Abraham, whose
   child he specially claimed to be, what, in his sight, had been poor
   Lazarus, covered with moral sores, and, religiously speaking, thrown
   down outside his gate - not only not admitted to the fellowship of his
   religious banquet, but not even to be fed by the crumbs that fell from
   his table, and to be left to the dogs. And it was the climax of the
   contrast that he should now have to invoke, and that in vain, his
   ministry, seeking it at the hands of Abraham. And here we also recall
   the previous Parable about making, ere it fail, friends by means of the
   Mamon of unrighteousness, that they may welcome us in the everlasting
   tabernacles.

   It should be remembered that Dives now limits his request to the
   humblest dimensions, asking only that Lazarus might be sent to dip the
   tip of his finger in the cooling liquid, and thus give him even the
   smallest relief. To this Abraham replies, though in a tone of pity:
   Child,' yet decidedly - showing him, first, the rightness of the
   present position of things; and, secondly, the impossibility of any
   alteration, such as he had asked. Dives had, in his lifetime, received
   his good things; that had been his things, he had chosen them as his
   part, and used them for self, without communicating of them. And
   Lazarus had received evil things. Now Lazarus was comforted, and Dives
   in torment. It was the right order - not that Lazarus was comforted
   because in this world he had suffered, nor yet that Dives was in
   torment because in this world he had had riches. But Lazarus received
   there the comfort which had been refused to him on earth, and the man
   who had made this world his good, and obtained there his portion, of
   which he had refused even the crumbs to the most needy, now received
   the meet reward of his unpitying, unloving, selfish life. But, besides
   all this, which in itself was right and proper, Dives had asked what
   was impossible: no intercourse could be held between Paradise and
   Gehenna, and on this account [4639] a great and impassable chasm
   existed between the two, so that, even if they would, they could not,
   pass from heaven to hell, nor yet from hell to those in bliss. And,
   although doctrinal statements should not be drawn from Parabolic
   illustrations, we would suggest that, at least so far as this Parable
   goes, it seems to preclude the hope of a gradual change or transition
   after a life lost in the service of sin and self.


   3. Application of the Parable, [4640] showing how the Law and the
   Prophets cannot fail, and how we must now press into the Kingdom. It
   seems a strange misconception on the part of some commentators, that
   the next request of Dives indicates a commencing change of mind on his
   part. To begin with, this part of the Parable is only intended to
   illustrate the need, and the sole means of conversion to God - the
   appeal to the Law and the Prophets being the more apt that the
   Pharisees made their boast of them, and the refusal of any special
   miraculous interposition the more emphatic, that the Pharisees had been
   asking for a sign from heaven.' Besides, it would require more than
   ordinary charity to discover a moral change in the desire that his
   brothers might - not be converted, but not come to that place of
   torment!

   Dismissing, therefore, this idea, we now find Dives pleading that
   Lazarus might be sent to his five brothers, who, as we infer, were of
   the same disposition and life as himself had been, to testify unto
   them' - the word implying more than ordinary, even earnest, testimony.
   Presumably, what he so earnestly asked to be attested was, that he,
   Dives, was in torment; and the expected effect, not of the testimony
   but of the mission of Lazarus, [4641] whom they are supposed to have
   known, was, that these, his brothers, might not come to the same place.
   At the same time, the request seems to imply an attempt at
   self-justification, as if, during his life, he had not had sufficient
   warning. Accordingly, the reply of Abraham is no longer couched in a
   tone of pity, but implies stern rebuke of Dives. They need no
   witness-bearer: they have Moses and the Prophets, let them hear them.
   If testimony be needed, their has been given, and it is sufficient - a
   reply this, which would specially appeal to the Pharisees. And when
   Dives, now, perhaps, as much bent on self-justification as on the
   message to his brothers, remonstrates that, although they had not
   received such testimony, yet if one come to them from the dead,' they
   would repent, the final, and, as, alas! history has shown since the
   Resurrection of Christ, the true answer is, that if they hear not [give
   not hearing to] Moses and the Prophets, neither will they be influenced
   [4642] [moved: their intellects to believe, their wills to repent], if
   one rose from the dead.'

   And here the Parable, and the warning to the Pharisees, abruptly break
   off. When next we hear the Master's voice, [4643] it is in loving
   application to the disciples of some of the lessons which were implied
   in what He had spoken to the Pharisees.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [4517] St. Luke xvi.

   [4518] ver 1.

   [4519] ver. 15.

   [4520] St. Luke xv. 1, 2.

   [4521] St. Luke xvi. 15.

   [4522] ver. 16.

   [4523] ver. 17.

   [4524] ver. 18.

   [4525] The reader who wishes to see the different views and
   interpretations of this Parable is referred to the modern commentaries,
   and especially to Archbishop Trench's Notes on the Parables (13th ed.).
   pp. 427-452.

   [4526] St. Luke xvi. 1-8.

   [4527] ver. 9.

   [4528] vv. 10-13.

   [4529] vv. 1-8.

   [4530] ver. 8.

   [4531] St. Luke xv. 13.

   [4532] St. Luke xvi. 2, 3.

   [4533] A somewhat similar parable occurs in Vayyik. R. 5 (towards the
   close) about a prudent' farmer. When matters go badly with his farm, he
   dresses himself in his best, puts on a cheerful mien, and so appears
   before his landlord. By well turned, flattering replies to the
   inquiries about the cattle and the crops, he so conciliates favour,
   that when the landlord finally inquires what he wished, and he requests
   a loan, he receives double the sum he had asked.

   [4534] See Herzfield, Handelsgesch, pp. 183-185. I have proceeded on
   his computation.  I am bound to add, that there are few subjects on
   which the statements of writers are more inconsistent or confused. The
   statements made in the text are derived from Jewish sources.

   [4535] The writer in Smith's Bibl. Dict., vol. iii. p. 1740 b, is
   mistaken in saying that the Bath is the largest of liquid measures.'
   According to Ezek. xlv. 11, the Chomer or Cor = ten bath or ephah, was
   equally applied to liquid and dry measures. The Bath (one-tenth of the
   Chomer or Cor) = three seah; the seah = two hin; the hin = twelve log;
   the log = space of six eggs. Further, one thirty-secondth of a log is
   reckoned equal to a large (table), one sixty-fourth to a small
   (dessert) spoon.

   [4536] This difference between the Wilderness,' or Mosaic,' and the
   Galilean' measure removes the difficulty (raised by Thenius) about the
   capacity of the brazen sea' in Solomon's Temple (1 Kings vii. 23, 26).
   The Bath should be calculated, not according to the Galilean ( =
   Metrêtês = about thirty-nine litres), but according to the Wilderness'
   measure ( = amphora = about twenty-six litres).

   [4537] The reading in Ant. xv. 9. 2: The Attic Medimni,' is evidently a
   copyist's error for Metrêtai.'

   [4538] Ant. viii. 2, 9; comp. ix. 4, 5.

   [4539] Jewish War. ii. 21. 2.

   [4540] Life, 13.

   [4541] Terum. x. 8.

   [4542] Jer. Baba M. iv. 2, p. 9 d.

   [4543] from Baba M. 105 b, about the middle.

   [4544] Peah viii. 7; Erub. viii. 2; Baba B. 91b.

   [4545] Baba B 91 a.

   [4546] This will appear from the cost of living, labour, &c.

   [4547] The word should be written with one m. See Grimm s. v.

   [4548] Grimm (after Drusius) derives it from {hebrew}, but this is most
   unlikely. The derivation of Lagarde (ap. Kautzsch, p. 173) seems very
   difficult. Buxtorf (s. v.) largely, but not very satisfactorily,
   discusses its etymology. The view in the text has the sanction of Levy.

   [4549] I must here refer generally to the monograph of Löw (Graphische
   Requis. u. Erzeugn., 2 vols.). Its statements require, however,
   occasionally to be rectified. See also Herzfeld, Handelsgesch. pp. 113
   &c., and Note 17.

   [4550] Sot. 49 b.

   [4551] Kel. xxiv. 7.

   [4552] Löw, u. s. vol. i. pp.97, 98. It is curious to learn that in
   those days also waste paper went to the grocer. (Baba M. 56 b.)

   [4553] St. Luke i. 63.

   [4554] From earlier times comes to us notice of the Gillayon (Is. viii.
   1) - a smooth tablet of wood, metal, or stone - and of the Cheret, or
   stylus (Is. viii. 1), and the Et, which means probably not only a
   stylus but also a calamus (Ps. xlv. 2; Jer. viii. 8.)

   [4555] Kel. xxiv. 7.

   [4556] So Sachs, Beitr. z. Sprach u. Alterth. Forsch. vol. i. p. 165;
   but Löw (u. s.) seems of different opinion.

   [4557] The Deyo seems to have been a dry substance which was made into
   black ink. Ink from gall-nuts appears to be of later invention.

   [4558] Shabb. xii. 4.

   [4559] u. s.

   [4560] Jer. Shabb 13 d. about the middle.

   [4561] Jos. Ant. xii. 2. 10.

   [4562] But the learned Relandus asserts that there were in his country
   such texts written in gold letters, and that hence the Talmudic
   prohibition could have only applied to the copies used in the
   Synagogues (Havercamp's ed. of Josephus, vol. i. p. 593, Note e.)

   [4563] Shabb. 103 b; Sopher. i. 9.

   [4564] Not to make a distinction between any portions of Scripture, and
   also from the curious Kabbalistic idea that somehow every word in the
   Bible contained the Divine Name.

   [4565] Shabb. viii. 5.

   [4566] 3 John 13.

   [4567] We read of one, Ben Qamtsar, who wrote four letters (the
   Tetragram) at once, holding four reeds (Qolemosin) at the same time
   between his four fingers (Yoma 38 b). The great R. Meir was celebrated
   as a copyist, specially of the Bible, at which work he is said to have
   made about 8s. weekly, of which, it is stated, he spent a third on his
   living, a third on his dress, and a third on charity to Rabbis (Midr.
   on Eccles. ii. 18, ed. Warsh. p. 83 b, last two lines). The codices of
   R. Meir seem to have embodied some variations of the common text. Thus,
   in the Psalms he wrote Halleluyah in one word, as it had been an
   interjection, and not in the orthodox way, as two words: Hallelu Yah
   (Jer. Meg. 72 a). His codices seem also to have had marginal notes.
   Thus, on the words very good' ({hebrew}), Gen. i. 31, he noted death is
   good' ({hebrew}), a sort of word-play, to support his view, that death
   was originally of God and created by Him - a natural necessity rather
   than a punishment (Ber. R. 9.). Similarly, on Gen. iii. 21, he altered
   in the margin the {hebrew}, skin,' of the text into {hebrew}, light,'
   thus rendering garments of light' (u. s. 20). Again, in Gen. xlvi. 23,
   he left out the {hebrew} from {hebrew}, rendering it And the son of Dan
   was Chushim' (u. s. 94.). Similarly, he altered the words, Is. xxi. 11,
   {hebrew}, the burden of Dumah' into Roma, {hebrew} (Jer. Taan. p. 64 a,
   line 10 from top.)

   [4568] Shabb. i. 3.

   [4569] Similarly, the carpenter carried a small wooden rule behind his
   ear.

   [4570] Already mentioned in Jer. xxxvi. 23, and in the Mishnah called
   Olar, {hebrew}. Kel. xii. 8.

   [4571] Kel. ii. 7.

   [4572] Kel. xii. 8.

   [4573] Meg. 16 b.

   [4574] Letters, other documents, or bales of merchandise, were sealed
   with a kind of red clay.

   [4575] Meg. 17 a; 19 a.

   [4576] Shabb. viii. 3.

   [4577] Kel. xvii. 17.

   [4578] Kel. xiii. 2.

   [4579] Ab. iii. 16.

   [4580] Baba B. 161 b.

   [4581] u. s. 163 a, b; 164 a.

   [4582] St. Luke xvi. 7.

   [4583] Shem. R. 15.

   [4584] The designations for the general formulary (Tophos, or Tiphos
   (Gitt. iii. 2), = typos), and for the special clauses (Toreph = Tropos)
   were of Greek derivation. For the full draft of the various legal
   documents we refer the reader to Note ix. at the end of Sammter's
   edition of Baba Mets. pp. 144-148. How many documents of this kind
   Jewish legalism must have invented, may be gathered from the
   circumstance that Herzfeld (u. s. p. 314) enumerates not fewer than
   thirty-eight different kinds of them! It appears that there were
   certain forms of these and similar documents, prepared with spaces left
   blank to be filled in (Gitt. iii. .2)

   [4585] Baba M. i. 8.

   [4586] The more full designation was Shetar Chobh, a writing of debt
   (Baba M. i. 6), or Shetar Milvah (Gitt. iii. 2), a writing of loan.

   [4587] The attestation of the court was called Qiyum Beth Din, the
   establishment of the court,' Ashra, or Asharta, strengthening, or
   Henpheq (Baba Mez. 7 b), literally, the production, viz. before the
   court.

   [4588] Baba B. 163 a, b.

   [4589] Babha B. x. 8.

   [4590] For the derivation and legal bearing of the term, see Löw, vol.
   ii. p. 82.

   [4591] Babha M. 7.

   [4592] Babha B. x. 8.

   [4593] Although it is certain that letters of credit were used by the
   Jews of old, there is sufficient reason for believing that bills' were
   first introduced into commerce by the Italians, and not by Jews.

   [4594] But Guisius (in Surenhusius' Mishna, vol. i. pp. 56, 57) gives a
   different derivation and interpretation, which the learned reader may
   consult for himself.

   [4595] Babha B 46 b.

   [4596] The difference between the Aris and the Chokher is stated in
   Jer. Bikkur. 64 b.

   [4597] The difference between the Chokher and the Sokher is expressed
   in Tos. Demai vi. 2. Ugolini (Thes. vol. xx. pp. cxix., cxx.) not only
   renders but copies this passage wrongly. A more composite bargain of
   letting land and lending money for its better cultivation is mentioned
   in B. Mez. 69 b.

   [4598] St. Luke xvi. 9.

   [4599] This, and not they shall fail,' is the correct reading.

   [4600] So in the Targ. on Hab. ii. 9, {hebrew}.

   [4601] Ps. xv. i.; xxvii. 5, the latter being realistically understood
   in Siphra.

   [4602] Comp. Schöttgen ad loc.

   [4603] Yalkut, vol. i. p. 81 a, lines 19 &c, from top.

   [4604] No doubt the equivalent for the Rabbinic {hebrew} accreditus,
   and used in the same sense.

   [4605] Shem. R., ed. Warsh., p. 7 b, about the middle.

   [4606] St. Luke xvi. 10.

   [4607] ver. 13.

   [4608] St. Luke xvi. 14-31.

   [4609] St. Luke xvi. 14.

   [4610] ver. 15.

   [4611] Comp. St. Matt. xi. 12 and our remarks on the passage.

   [4612] St. Luke xvi. 16, 17.

   [4613] ver. 18.

   [4614] vv. 16-22.

   [4615] In later times Palestinian byssus seems to have been in great
   repute. See Herzfeld, Handelsgesch. p. 107.

   [4616] Yoma iii. 6, 7.

   [4617] Jer. Yoma iii. 6, p. 40 d.

   [4618] Jer. Kidd. 62 c.

   [4619] Shabb.26 a.

   [4620] Kel. xxix.

   [4621] Jer. Yoma iii. 6.

   [4622] The better reading of ver. 20 is that adopted in the Revised
   Version: And a certain beggar named Lazarus' - only that we should
   render was cast.'

   [4623] I cannot agree with Dean Plumptre that the name Lazarus had been
   chosen with special reference, and as a warning, to the brother of
   Martha and Mary. If Lazarus of Bethany was thus to be warned in regard
   to the proper use of his riches, his name would have been given to
   Dives, and not to the beggar. But besides, can we for one moment
   believe that Christ would in such manner have introduced the name of
   Lazarus of Bethany into such a Parable, he being alive at the time?
   Nothing, surely, could be further from His general mode of teaching
   than the introduction of such personalities.

   [4624] For this see Book V. ch. vi.

   [4625] Kethub. 104 a; Bemidb. R. 11, ed. Warsh. p. 42 b; Targ. on Cant.
   iv. 12.

   [4626] 4 Macc. xiii. 16; Kidd. 72 b, 1st line.

   [4627] But I cannot think with Grimm (Kurzgef. Exeg. Handb. z. d.
   Apokr. Lief. iv. p. 347) that the expression refers to a feast of
   fellowship.

   [4628] Erub. 19 a.

   [4629] St. Luke xvi. 23-26.

   [4630] Jer. Targ. on Gen. iii. 24.

   [4631] Ber. 34 b.

   [4632] Vayyik. R. 32, beginning.

   [4633] u.s. p.48 b, lines 8 and 9 from top.

   [4634] Midr. on Eccles. i. 15, ed. Warsh. p. 81 b. about the middle.

   [4635] Ber. 18 b.

   [4636] According to some of the commentators these were, however,
   dreams.

   [4637] Jer. Chag. 77 d.

   [4638] Comp. also Jer. Sanh. 23 c about the middle.

   [4639] The exact rendering in ver. 26 is; in order that (pos, so also
   in ver. 28) they who would pass from hence to you,' &c.

   [4640] St. Luke xvi. 27-31.

   [4641] ver. 30.

   [4642] This is the real meaning of the verb petho in the passive voice.
   The rendering persuade' is already Targumic - giving it the sense of
   moving or influencing the intellect. To us the other sense, that of
   influencing the will to repentance, seems more likely to have been
   intended.

   [4643] ch. xvii.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XIX.
THE THREE LAST PARABLES OF THE PERÆAN SERIES: THE UNRIGHTEOUS JUDGE - THE
SELF-RIGHTEOUS PHARISEE AND THE PUBLICAN - THE UNMERCIFUL SERVANT

   (St. Luke xviii. 1-14; St. Matt. xviii. 23-35.)

   If we were to seek confirmation of the suggestion, that these last and
   the two preceding Parables are grouped together under a common
   viewpoint, such as that of Righteousness, the character and position of
   the Parables now to be examined would supply it. For, while the Parable
   of the Unjust Judge evidently bears close affinity to those that had
   preceded - especially to that of him who persisted in his request for
   bread [4644] - it evidently refers not, as the other, to man's present
   need, but to the Second Coming of Christ. The prayer, the perseverance,
   the delay, and the ultimate answer of which it speaks, are all
   connected with it. [4645] Indeed, it follows on what had passed on this
   subject immediately before - first, between the Pharisees and Christ,
   [4646] and then between Christ and the disciples. [4647]

   Again, we must bear in mind that between the Parable of Dives and
   Lazarus and that of the Unjust Judge, not indeed, a great interval of
   time, but most momentous events, had intervened. These were: the visit
   of Jesus to Bethany, the raising of Lazarus, the Jerusalem council
   against Christ, the flight to Ephraim, [4648] a brief stay and
   preaching there, and the commencement of His last journey to Jerusalem.
   [4649] During this last slow journey from the borders of Galilee to
   Jerusalem, we suppose the Discourses [4650] and the Parable about the
   Coming of the Son of Man to have been spoken. And although such
   utterances will be best considered in connection with Christ's later
   and full Discourses about The Last Things,' we readily perceive, even
   at this stage, how, when He set His Face towards Jerusalem, there to be
   offered up, thoughts and words concerning the End' may have entered
   into all His teaching, and so have given occasion for the questions of
   the Pharisees and disciples, and for the answers of Christ, alike by
   Discourse and in Parable.

   The most common and specious, but also the most serious mistake take in
   reference to the Parable of the Unjust Judge,' is to regard it as
   implying that, just as the poor widow insisted in her petition and was
   righted because of her insistence, so the disciples should persist in
   prayer and would be heard because of their insistence. But this is an
   entirely false interpretation. When treating of the Parable of the
   Unrighteous Steward, we disclaimed all merely mechanical ideas of
   prayer, as if God heard us for our many repetitions. This error must
   here also be carefully avoided. The inference from the Parable is not,
   that the Church will be ultimately vindicated because she perseveres in
   prayer, but that she so perseveres, because God will surely right her
   cause: it is not, that insistence in prayer is the cause of its answer,
   but that the certainty of that which is asked for should lead to
   continuance in prayer, even when all around seems to forbid the hope of
   answer. This is the lesson to be learned from a comparison of the
   Unjust Judge with the Just and Holy God in His dealings with His own.
   If the widow persevered, knowing that, although no other consideration,
   human or Divine, would influence the Unjust Judge, yet her insistence
   would secure its object, how much more should we not faint,' but
   continue in prayer, who are appealing to God, Who has His people and
   His cause at heart, even though He delay, remembering also that even
   this is for their sakes who pray. And this is fully expressed in the
   introductory words. He spake also a Parable to them with reference
   [4651] to the need be (prs t den) of their [4652] always praying and
   not fainting.' [4653]

   The remarks just made will remove what otherwise might seem another
   serious difficulty. If it be asked, how the conduct of the Unjust Judge
   could serve as illustration of what might be expected from God, we
   answer, that the lesson in the Parable is not from the similarity but
   from the contrast between the Unrighteous human and the Righteous
   Divine Judge. Hear what the Unrighteous Judge saith. But God [mark the
   emphatic position of the word], shall He not indeed [o m] vindicate
   [the injuries of, do judgment for] His elect . . .?' In truth, this
   mode of argument is perhaps the most common in Jewish Parables, and
   occurs on almost every page of ancient Rabbinic commentaries. It is
   called the Qal vaChomer, light and heavy,' and answers to our reasoning
   a fortiori or de minore ad majus (from the less to the greater). [4654]
   According to the Rabbis, ten instances of such reasoning occur in the
   Old Testament [4655] itself. [4656] Generally, such reasoning is
   introduced by the words Qal vaChomer; often it is prefaced by, Al
   achath Kammah veKammah, against one how much and how much,' that is,
   how much more.' Thus, it is argued that, if a King of flesh and blood'
   did so and so, shall not the King of Kings, &c.; or, if the sinner
   received such and such, shall not the righteous, &c.? In the present
   Parable the reasoning would be: If the Judge of Unrighteousness' said
   that he would vindicate, shall not the Judge of all Righteousness do
   judgment on behalf of His Elect? In fact, we have an exact Rabbinic
   parallel to the thought underlying, and the lesson derived from, this
   Parable. When describing, how at the preaching of Jonah Nineveh
   repented and cried to God, His answer to the loud persistent cry of the
   people is thus explained: The bold (he who is unabashed) conquers even
   a wicked person [to grant him his request], how much more the All-Good
   of the world!' [4657]

   The Parable opens by laying down as a general principle the necessity
   and duty of the Disciples always to pray - the precise meaning being
   defined by the opposite, or limited clause: not to faint,' that is, not
   to become weary.' [4658] The word always' must not be understood in
   respect of time, as if it meant continuously, but at all times, in the
   sense of under all circumstances, however apparently adverse, when it
   might seem as if an answer could not come, and we would therefore be in
   danger of fainting' or becoming weary. This rule applies here primarily
   to that weariness' which might lead to the cessation of prayer for the
   Coming of the Lord, or of expectancy of it, during the long period when
   it seems as if He delayed His return, nay, as if increasingly there
   were no likelihood of it. But it may also be applied to all similar
   circumstances, when prayer seems so long unanswered that weariness in
   praying threatens to overtake us. Thus, it is argued, even in Jewish
   writings, that a man should never be deterred from, nor cease praying,
   the illustration by Qal vaChomer being from the case of Moses, who knew
   that it was decreed he should not enter the land, and yet continued
   praying about it. [4659]

   The Parable introduces to us a Judge in a city, and a widow. Except
   where a case was voluntarily submitted for arbitration rather than
   judgment, or judicial advice was sought of a sage, one man could not
   have formed a Jewish tribunal. Besides, his mode of speaking and acting
   is inconsistent with such a hypothesis. He must therefore have been one
   of the Judges, or municipal authorities, appointed by Herod or the
   Romans, perhaps a Jew, but not a Jewish Judge. Possibly, he may have
   been a police-magistrate, or one who had some function of that kind
   delegated to him. We know that, at least in Jerusalem, there were two
   stipendiary magistrates (Dayyaney Gezeroth [4660] whose duty it was to
   see to the observance of all police-regulations and the prevention of
   crime. Unlike the regular Judges, who attended only on certain days and
   hours, [4661] and were unpaid, these magistrates were, so to speak,
   always on duty, and hence unable to engage in any other occupation. It
   was probably for this reason that they were paid out of the
   Temple-Treasury, [4662] and received so large a salary as 225l., or, if
   needful, even more. [4663] On account of this, perhaps also for their
   unjust exactions, Jewish wit designated them, by a play on the words,
   as Dayyaney Gezeloth - Robber-Judges, instead of their real title of
   Dayyaney Gezeroth (Judges of Prohibitions, or else of Punishments).
   [4664] It may have been that there were such Jewish magistrates in
   other places also. Josephus speaks of local magistracies. [4665] [4666]
   At any rate there were in every locality police-officials, who watched
   over order and law. [4667] The Talmud speaks in very depreciatory terms
   of these village-Judges' (Dayyaney deMegista), in opposition to the
   town tribunals (Bey Davar), and accuses them of ignorance,
   arbitrariness, and covetousness, so that for a dish of meat they would
   pervert justice. [4668] Frequent instances are also mentioned of gross
   injustice and bribery in regard to the non-Jewish Judges in Palestine.

   It is to such a Judge that the Parable refers - one who was
   consciously, openly, and avowedly [4669] inaccessible to the highest
   motive, the fear of God, and not even restrained by the lower
   consideration of regard for public opinion. It is an extreme case,
   intended to illustrate the exceeding unlikelihood of justice being
   done. For the same purpose, the party seeking justice at his hands is
   described as a poor, unprotected widow. But we must also bear in mind,
   in the interpretation of this Parable, that the Church, whom she
   represents, is also widowed in the absence of her Lord. To return -
   this widow came' to the Unjust Judge (the imperfect tense in the
   original indicating repeated, even continuous coming), with the urgent
   demand to be vindicated of her adversary, that is, that the Judge
   should make legal inquiry, and by a decision set her right as against
   him at whose hands she was suffering wrong. For reasons of his own he
   would not; and this continued for a while. At last, not from any higher
   principle, nor even from regard for public opinion - both of which,
   indeed, as he avowed to himself, had no weight with him - he complied
   with her request, as the text (literally translated) has it: Yet at any
   rate [4670] because this widow troubleth me, I will do justice for her,
   lest, in the end, coming she bruise me,' [4671] - do personal violence
   to me, attack me bodily. Then follows the grand inference from it: If
   the Judge of Unrighteousness' speak thus, shall not the Judge of all
   Righteousness - God - do judgment, vindicate [by His Coming to judgment
   and so setting right the wrong done to His Church] His Elect, which cry
   to Him day and night, although He suffer long on account of them' -
   delay His final interposition of judgment and mercy, and that, not as
   the Unjust Judge, but for their own sakes, in order that the number of
   the Elect may all be gathered in, and they fully prepared?

   Difficult as the rendering of this last clause admittedly is, our
   interpretation of it seems confirmed by the final application of this
   Parable. [4672] Taking the previous verse along with it, we would have
   this double Parallelism: But God, shall He not vindicate [do judgment
   on behalf of] His Elect?' [4673] I tell you, that He will do judgment
   on behalf of them shortly' - this word being chosen rather than
   speedily' (as in the A. and R.V.), because the latter might convey the
   idea of a sudden interposition, such as is not implied in the
   expression. This would be the first Parallelism; the second this:
   Although He suffer long [delay His final interposition] on account of
   them' (verse 7), to which the second clause of verse 8 would
   correspond, as offering the explanation and vindication: But the Son of
   Man, when He have come, shall He find the faith upon the earth?' It is
   a terribly sad question, as put by Him Who is the Christ: After all
   this long-suffering delay, shall He find the faith upon the earth -
   intellectual belief on the part of one class, and on the part of the
   Church the faith of the heart which trusts in, longs, and prays,
   because it expects and looks for His Coming, all undisturbed by the
   prevailing unbelief around, only quickened by it to more intensity of
   prayer! Shall He find it? Let the history of the Church, nay, each
   man's heart, make answer!

   2. The Parable of the Pharisee and the Publican, which follows, [4674]
   is only internally connected with that of the Unjust Judge.' It is not
   unrighteousness, but of self-righteousness - and this, both in its
   positive and negative aspects: as trust in one's own state, and as
   contempt of others. Again, it has also this connection with the
   previous Parable, that, whereas that of the Unrighteous Judge pointed
   to continuance, this to humility in prayer.

   The introductory clause shows that it has no connection in point of
   time with what had preceded, although the interval between the two may,
   of course, have been very short. Probably, something had taken place,
   which is not recorded, to occasion this Parable, which, if not directly
   addressed to the Pharisees, [4675] is to such as are of Pharisaic
   spirit. It brings before us two men going up to the Temple - whether at
   the hour of prayer,' or otherwise, is not stated. Remembering that,
   with the exception of the Psalms for the day and the interval for a
   certain prescribed prayer, the service in the Temple was entirely
   sacrificial, we are thankful for such glimpses, which show that, both
   in the time of public service, and still more at other times, the
   Temple was made the place of private prayer. [4676] On the present
   occasion the two men, who went together to the entrance of the Temple,
   represented the two religious extremes in Jewish society. To the
   entrance of the Temple, but no farther, did the Pharisee and the
   Publican go together. Within the sacred enclosure - before God, where
   man should least have made it, began their separation. The Pharisee put
   himself by himself, [4677] and prayed thus: O God, I thank Thee that I
   am not as the rest of men - extortioners, unjust, adulterers - nor also
   as this Publican [there].' Never, perhaps, were words of thanksgiving
   spoken in less thankfulness than these. For, thankfulness implies the
   acknowledgement of a gift; hence, a sense of not having had ourselves
   what we have received; in other words, then, a sense of our personal
   need, or humility. But the very first act of this Pharisee had been to
   separate himself from all the other worshippers, and notably from the
   Publican, whom, as his words show, he had noticed, and looked down
   upon. His thanksgiving referred not to what he had received, but to the
   sins of others by which they were separated from him, and to his own
   meritorious deeds by which he was separated from them. Thus, his words
   expressed what his attitude indicated; and both were the expression,
   not of thankfulness, but of boastfulness. It was the same as their
   bearing at the feast and in public places; the same as their contempt
   and condemnation of the rest of men,' and especially the publicans;'
   the same that even their designation - Pharisees,' Separated ones,'
   implied. The rest of men' might be either the Gentiles, or, more
   probably, the common unlearned people, the Am haArets, whom they
   accused or suspected of every possible sin, according to their
   fundamental principle: The unlearned cannot be pious.' And, in their
   sense of that term, they were right - and in this lies the condemnation
   of their righteousness. And, most painful though it be, remembering the
   downright earnestness and zeal of these men, it must be added that, as
   we read the Liturgy of the Synagogue, we come ever and again upon such
   and similar thanksgiving - that they are not as the rest of men.'
   [4678]

   But this was not all. From looking down upon others the Pharisee
   proceeded to look up to himself. Here Talmudic writings offer painful
   parallelisms. They are full of references to the merits of the just, to
   the merits and righteousness of the fathers,' or else of Israel in
   taking upon itself the Law. And for the sake of these merits and of
   that righteousness, Israel, as a nation, expects general acceptance,
   pardon, and temporal benefits [4679] - for, all spiritual benefits
   Israel as a nation, and the pious in Israel individually, possess
   already, nor do they need to get them from heaven, since they can and
   do work them out for themselves. And here the Pharisee in the Parable
   significantly dropped even the form of thanksgiving. The religious
   performances which he enumerated are those which mark the Pharisee
   among the Pharisees: I fast twice a week, and I give tithes of all that
   I acquire.' [4680] The first of these was in pursuance of the custom of
   some more righteous than the rest,' who, as previously explained,
   fasted on the second and fifth days of the week (Mondays and
   Thursdays). [4681] But, perhaps, we should not forget that these were
   also the regular market days, when the country-people came to the
   towns, and there were special Services in the Synagogues, and the local
   Sanhedrin met - so that these saints in Israel would, at the same time,
   attract and receive special notice for their fasts. As for the boast
   about giving tithes of all that he acquired - and not merely of his
   land, fruits, &c. - it has already been explained, [4682] that this was
   one of the distinctive characteristics of the sect of the Pharisees.'
   Their practice in this respect may be summed up in these words of the
   Mishnah: [4683] He tithes all that he eats, all that he sells, and all
   that he buys, and he is not a guest with an unlearned person [Am
   haArets, so as not possibly to partake of what may have been left
   untithed].'

   Although it may not be necessary, yet one or two quotations will help
   to show how truly this picture of the Pharisee was taken from life.
   Thus, the following prayer of a Rabbi is recorded: I thank Thee, O Lord
   my God, that Thou hast put my part with those who sit in the Academy,
   and not with those who sit at the corners [money-changers and traders].
   For, I rise early and they rise early: I rise early to the words of the
   Law, and they to vain things. I labour and they labour: I labour and
   receive a reward, they labour and receive no reward. I run and they
   run: I run to the life of the world to come, and they to the pit of
   destruction.' [4684] Even more closely parallel is this thanksgiving,
   which a Rabbi puts into the mouth of Israel: Lord of the world, judge
   me not as those who dwell in the big towns [such as Rome]: among whom
   there is robbery, and uncleanness, and vain and false swearing.' [4685]
   Lastly, as regards the boastful spirit of Rabbinism, we recall such
   painful sayings as those of Rabbi Simeon ben Jochai, to which reference
   has already been made [4686] - notably this, that if there were only
   two righteous men in the world, he and his son were these; and if only
   one, it was he! [4687]

   The second picture, or scene, in the Parable sets before us the reverse
   state of feeling from that of the Pharisee. Only, we must bear in mind,
   that, as the Pharisee is not blamed for his giving of thanks, nor yet
   for his good-doing, real or imaginary, so the prayer of the Publican is
   not answered, because he was a sinner. In both cases what decides the
   rejection or acceptance of the prayer is, whether or not it was prayer.
   The Pharisee retains the righteousness which he had claimed for
   himself, whatever its value; and the Publican receives the
   righteousness which he asks: both have what they desire before God. If
   the Pharisee stood by himself,' apart from others, so did the Publican:
   standing afar off,' viz. from the Pharisee - quite far back, as became
   one who felt himself unworthy to mingle with God's people. In
   accordance with this: He would not so much as lift [4688] his eyes to
   heaven,' as men generally do in prayer, but smote his [4689] breast' -
   as the Jews still do in the most solemn part of their confession on the
   Day of Atonement - saying, God be merciful to me the sinner.' The
   definite article is used to indicate that he felt, as if he alone were
   a sinner - nay, the sinner. Not only, as has been well remarked, [4690]
   does he not think of any one else' (de nemine alio homine cogitat),
   while the Pharisee had thought of every one else; but, as he had taken
   a position not in front of, but behind, every one else, so, in contrast
   to the Pharisee, who had regarded every one but himself as a sinner,
   the Publican regarded every one else as righteous compared with him the
   sinner.' And, while the Pharisee felt no need, and uttered no petition,
   the Publican felt only need, and uttered only petition. The one
   appealed to himself for justice, the other appealed to God for mercy.

   More complete contrast, therefore, could not be imagined. And once
   more, as between the Pharisee and the Publican, the seeming and the
   real, that before men and before God, there is sharp contrast, and the
   lesson which Christ had so often pointed is again set forth, not only
   in regard to the feelings which the Pharisees entertained, but also to
   the gladsome tidings of pardon to the lost: I say unto you, This man
   went down to his house justified above the other' [so according to the
   better reading, pa kenon]. In other words, the sentence of
   righteousness as from God with which the Publican went home was above,
   far better than, the sentence of righteousness as pronounced by
   himself, with which the Pharisee returned. This saying casts also light
   on such comparisons as between the righteous' elder brother and the
   pardoned prodigal, or the ninety-nine that need no repentance' and the
   lost that was found, or, on such an utterance as this: Except your
   righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the Scribes and
   Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the Kingdom of Heaven.'
   [4691] And so the Parable ends with the general principle, so often
   enunciated: For every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he
   that humbleth himself shall be exalted.' And with this general teaching
   of the Parable fully accords the instruction of Christ to His disciples
   concerning the reception of little children, which immediately follows.
   [4692]

   3. The Parable with which this series closes - that of the Unmerciful
   Servant, [4693] can be treated more briefly, since the circumstances
   leading up to it have already been explained in chapter iii. of this
   Book. We are now reaching the point where the solitary narrative of St.
   Luke again merges with those of the other Evangelists. That the Parable
   was spoken before Christ's final journey to Jerusalem, appears from St.
   Matthew's Gospel. [4694] On the other hand, as we compare what in the
   Gospel by St. Luke follows on the Parable of the Pharisee and Publican
   [4695] with the circumstances in which the Parable of the Unmerciful
   Servant is introduced, we cannot fail to perceive inward connection
   between the narratives of the two Evangelists, confirming the
   conclusion, arrived at on other grounds, that the Parable of the
   Unmerciful Servant belongs to the Peræan series, and closes it.

   Its connection with the Parable of the Pharisee and the Publican lies
   in this, that Pharisaic self-righteousness and contempt of others may
   easily lead to unforgiveness and unmercifulness, which are utterly
   incompatible with a sense of our own need of Divine mercy and
   forgiveness. And so in the Gospel of St. Matthew this Parable follows
   on the exhibition of a self-righteous, unmerciful spirit, which would
   reckon up how often we should forgive, forgetful of our own need of
   absolute and unlimited pardon at the hands of God [4696] - a spirit,
   moreover, of harshness, that could look down upon Christ's little
   ones,' in forgetfulness of our own need perhaps of cutting off even a
   right hand or foot to enter the Kingdom of Heaven. [4697]

   In studying this Parable, we must once more remind ourselves of the
   general canon of the need of distinguishing between what is essential
   in a Parable, as directly bearing on its lessons, and what is merely
   introduced for the sake of the Parable itself, to give point to its
   main teaching. In the present instance, no sober interpreter would
   regard of the essence of the Parable the King's command to sell into
   slavery the first debtor, together with his wife and children. It is
   simply a historical trait, introducing what is analogous circumstances
   might happen in real life, in order to point the lesson, that a man's
   strict desert before God is utter hopeless, and eternal ruin and loss.
   Similarly, when the promise of the debtor is thus introduced: Have
   patience with me, and I will pay thee all,' it can only be to complete
   in a natural manner the first part of the Parabolic history and to
   prepare for the second, in which forbearance is asked by a
   fellow-servant for the small debt which he owes. Lastly, in the same
   manner, the recall of the King's original forgiveness of the great
   debtor can only be intended to bring out the utter incompatibility of
   such harshness towards a brother on the part of one who has been
   consciously forgiven by God his great debt.

   Thus keeping apart the essentials of the Parable from the accidents of
   its narration, we have three distinct scenes, or parts, in this story.
   In the first, our new feelings towards our brethren are traced to our
   new relation towards God, as the proper spring of all our thinking,
   speaking, and acting. Notably, as regards forgiveness, we are to
   remember the Kingdom of God: Therefore has the Kingdom of God become
   like' - therefore:' in order that thereby we may learn the duty of
   absolute, not limited, forgiveness - not that of seven,' but of seventy
   times seven.' And now this likeness of the Kingdom of Heaven is set
   forth in the Parable of a man, a King' (as the Rabbis would have
   expressed it, a king of flesh and blood'), who would make his
   reckoning' (sunairein) with his servants' - certainly not his
   bondservants, but probably the governors of his provinces, or those who
   had charge of the revenue and finances. But after he had begun to
   reckon' - not necessarily at the very beginning of it - one was brought
   to him, a debtor of ten thousand talents.' Reckoning them only as Attic
   talents (1 talent = 60 minas = 6,000 dinars) this would amount to the
   enormous sum of about two and a quarter millions sterling. No wonder,
   that one who during his administration had been guilty of such
   peculation, or else culpable negligence, should, as the words brought
   to him' imply, have been reluctant to face the king. The Parable
   further implies, that the debt was admitted; and hence, in the course
   of ordinary judicial procedure - according to the Law of Moses, [4698]
   and the universal code of antiquity - that servant,' with his family
   and all his property, was ordered to be sold, [4699] and the returns
   paid into the treasury.

   Of course, it is not suggested that the payment' thus made had met his
   debt. Even this would, if need were, confirm the view, previously
   expressed, that this trait belongs not to the essentials of the
   Parable, but to the details of the narrative. So does the promise, with
   which the now terrified servant,' as he cast himself at the feet of the
   King, supported his plea for patience: I will pay thee all.' In truth,
   the narrative takes no notice of this, but, on the other hand, states:
   But, being moved with compassion, the lord of that servant released him
   [from the bondage decreed, and which had virtually begun with his
   sentence], and the debt forgave he him.' [4700] A more accurate
   representation of our relation to God could not be made. We are the
   debtors of our heavenly King, Who has entrusted to us the
   administration of what is His, and which we have purloined or misused,
   incurring an unspeakable debt, which we can never discharge, and of
   which, in the course of justice, unending bondage, misery, and utter
   ruin would be the proper sequence. But, if in humble repentance we cast
   ourselves at His Feet, He is ready, in infinite compassion, not only to
   release us from meet punishment, but - O blessed revelation of the
   Gospel! - to forgive us the debt.

   It is this new relationship to God which must be the foundation and the
   rule for our new relationship towards our fellow-servants. And this
   brings us to the second part, or scene in this Parable. Here the lately
   pardoned servant finds one of his fellow-servants, who owes him the
   small sum of 100 dinars, about 4l. 10s. Mark now the sharp contrast,
   which is so drawn as to give point to the Parable. In the first case,
   it was the servant brought to account, and that before the King; here
   it is a servant finding and that his fellowservant; in the first case,
   he owed talents, in the second dinars (a six-thousandth part of them);
   in the first, ten thousand talents; in the second, one hundred dinars.
   Again, in the first case payment is only demanded, while in the second
   the man takes his fellow-servant by the throat - a not uncommon mode of
   harshness on the part of Roman creditors - and says: Pay what,' or
   according to the better reading, if thou owest anything.' And, lastly,
   although the words of the second debtor are almost the same [4701] as
   those in which the first debtor besought the King's patience, yet no
   mercy is shown, but he is cast' [with violence] into prison, till he
   have paid what was due. [4702]

   It can scarcely be necessary to show the incongrousness or the guilt of
   such conduct. But this is the object of the third part, or scene, in
   the Parable. Here - again for the sake of pictorialness - the other
   servants are introduced as exceedingly sorry, no doubt about the fate
   of their fellow-servant, especially in the circumstances of the case.
   Then they come to their lord, and clearly set forth,' or explain'
   (diasaphen) what had happened, upon which the Unmerciful Servant is
   summoned, and addressed as wicked servant,' not only because he had not
   followed the example of his lord, but because, after having received
   such immense favour as the entire remission of his debt on entreating
   his master, to have refused to the entreaty of his fellow-servant even
   a brief delay in the payment of a small sum, argued want of all mercy
   and positive wickedness. And the words are followed by the
   manifestations of righteous anger. As he has done, so is it done to him
   - and this is the final application of the Parable. [4703] He is
   delivered to the tormentors,' not in the sense of being tormented by
   them, which would scarcely have been just, but in that of being handed
   over to such keepers of the prison, to whom criminals who were to be
   tortured were delivered, and who executed such punishment on them: in
   other words he is sent to the hardest and severest prison, there to
   remain till he should pay all that was due by him - that is, in the
   circumstances, for ever. And here we may again remark, without drawing
   any dogmatic inferences from the language of the Parable, that it seems
   to proceed on these two assumptions: that suffering neither expiates
   guilt, nor in itself amends the guilty, and that as sin has incurred a
   debt that can never be discharged, so the banishment, or rather the
   loss and misery of it, will be endless.

   We pause to notice, how near Rabbinism has come to this Parable, and
   yet how far it is from its sublime teaching. At the outset we recall
   that unlimited forgiveness - or, indeed, for more than the farthest
   limit of three times - was not the doctrine of Rabbinism. It did,
   indeed, teach how freely God would forgive Israel, and it introduces a
   similar Parable of a debtor appealing to his creditor, and receiving
   the fullest and freest release of mercy, [4704] and it also draws from
   it the moral, that man should similarly show mercy: but it is not the
   mercy of forgiveness from the heart, but of forgiveness of money debts
   to the poor, [4705] or of various injuries, [4706] and the mercy of
   benevolence and beneficence to the wretched. [4707] But, however
   beautifully Rabbinism at times speaks on the subject, the Gospel
   conception of forgiveness, even as that of mercy, could only come by
   blessed experience of the infinitely higher forgiveness, and the
   incomparably greater mercy, which the pardoned sinner has received in
   Christ from our Father in Heaven.

   But to us all there is the deepest seriousness in the warning against
   unmercifulness; and that, even though we remember that the case here
   referred to is only that of unwillingness to forgive from the heart an
   offending brother who actually asks for it. Yet, if not the sin, the
   temptation to it is very real to us all - perhaps rather unconsciously
   to ourselves than consciously. For, how often is our forgiveness in the
   heart, as well as from the heart, narrowed by limitations and burdened
   with conditions; and is it not of the very essence of sectarianism to
   condemn without mercy him who does not come up to our demands - ay, and
   until he shall have come up to them to the uttermost farthing?
     __________________________________________________________________

   [4644] St. Luke xi. 5 &c.

   [4645] Comp. St. Luke xviii. 7, 8.

   [4646] xvii. 20, 21.

   [4647] vv. 22-37.

   [4648] St. John xi.

   [4649] St. Luke xvii. 11.

   [4650] St. Luke xvii.

   [4651] Even this shows that it is intended to mark an essential
   difference between this and the preceding Parables.

   [4652] The word atos should be inserted in the text.

   [4653] The verbs are, of course, in the infinitive.

   [4654] Sometimes it is applied in the opposite direction, from the
   greater to the less.

   [4655] These ten passages are: Gen. xliv. 8; Exod. vi. 9, 12; Numb.
   xii. 14; Deut. xxxi. 27; two instances in Jerem. xii. 5; 1 Sam. xxiii.
   3; Prov. xi. 31; Esth. ix. 12; and Ezek. xv. 5.

   [4656] Ber. R. 92, ed. Warsh. p. 164 b from about the middle.

   [4657] Pesquita, ed Buber. p. 161 a, lines 3 and 2 from bottom.

   [4658] The verb is used in the same sense wherever it occurs in the
   N.T.: viz., St. Luke xviii. 1; 2 Cor. iv. 1, 16; Gal. vi. 9; Eph. iii.
   13; and 2 Thess. iii. 13. It is thus peculiar to St. Luke and to St.
   Paul.

   [4659] Siphré, ed Friedm. p.50 b, line 7 from top.

   [4660] Kethub. 104 b.

   [4661] Shabb. 10 a.

   [4662] Jer. Sheq. 48 a.

   [4663] Keth. 105 a; Jer. Keth xiii. 1.

   [4664] Comp. Geiger, Urschr. u. Uebers. pp. 119, 120, Note, with which,
   however, comp. the two Essays mentioned in Note 3.

   [4665] Ant. iv. 8, 14.

   [4666] See Geiger, u. s. p. 115.

   [4667] Comp. Bloch, Mos. Talm. Polizeirecht, which is, however, only an
   enlargement of Frankel's essay in the Monatschr. fur Gesch. d. Judenth.
   for 1852, pp. 243-261.

   [4668] Babha K.114 a.

   [4669] St. Luke xviii. 4.

   [4670] Comp. St. Luke xi. 8.

   [4671] This, as the only possible rendering of the verb in this
   instance, is also vindicated by Meyer ad loc. The Judge seems afraid of
   bodily violence from the exasperated woman. For a significant
   pugilistic use of the verb, comp. 1 Cor. ix. 27.

   [4672] St. Luke xviii. 8.

   [4673] ver. 7.

   [4674] St. Luke xviii. 9-14.

   [4675] The objection of Schleiermacher (followed by later
   commentators), that, in a Parable addressed to Pharisees, a Pharisee
   would not have been introduced as the chief figure, seems of little
   force.

   [4676] Comp. St. Luke ii. 27, 37; Acts ii. 46; v. 12, 42.

   [4677] For the philological vindication of this rendering, see Goebel,
   Parabeln (i.p. 327). The arguments in its favour are as follows: 1. It
   corresponds to the description of the position of the Publican, who
   also stood by himself afar off.' 2. Otherwise, the mention that the
   Pharisee stood' would seem utterly idle. He could not have sat. 3. The
   rendering prayed with himself,' is not correct. The words mean: to
   himself' - and this would give no meaning. But even were we to render
   it with himself' in the sense of silent prayer, the introduction of
   such a remark as that he prayed silently, would be both needless and
   aimless. But what decides us is the parallelism with the account of the
   posture of the Publican.

   [4678] Of this spirit are even such Eulogies as these in the ordinary
   morning-prayer: Blessed art Thou, Lord, our God, King of the world,
   that Thou hast not made me a stranger (a Gentile). . . a servant . . .
   a woman.'

   [4679] The merit of Zekhuth. On this subject we must refer, as far too
   large for quotation, to the detailed account in such works as Weber,
   System d. altsynag. Theol. pp. 280 &c. Indeed, there is no limit to
   such extravagances. The world itself had been created on account of the
   merits of Israel, and is sustained by them, even as all nations only
   continue by reason of this (Shemoth R. 15, 28; Bemidb. R. 2). A most
   extraordinary account is given in Bemidb. R. 20 of the four merits for
   the sake of which Israel was delivered out of Egypt: they did not
   change their names; nor their language; nor reveal their secrets; nor
   were dissolute.

   [4680] Not possess,' as in the A.V.

   [4681] Taan. 12 a.

   [4682] See Book III. ch. ii.

   [4683] Demai ii 2.

   [4684] Ber. 28 b.

   [4685] Erub. 21 b, lines 12 and 11 from bottom.

   [4686] Comp. vol. i. p. 540.

   [4687] Ber. R. 35 ed. Warsh. p. 64 b, end.

   [4688] This, and not lift so much as his eyes,' is the proper position
   of the words.

   [4689] The word upon' should be left out.

   [4690] So Bengel.

   [4691] St. Matt. v. 20.

   [4692] St. Luke xviii. 15-17.

   [4693] St. Matt. xviii. 23-35.

   [4694] St. Matt. xix. 1.

   [4695] St. Luke xviii. 15-17.

   [4696] St. Matt. xviii. 15-22.

   [4697] St. Matt. xviii. 1-14, passim.

   [4698] Ex. xxii. 3; Lev. xxv. 39, 47.

   [4699] Accordingly, these servants could not have been bondservants,'
   as in the margin of the R.V.

   [4700] Mark the emphatic position of the words in the original.

   [4701] According to the better reading, the word all' in ver. 29 should
   be left out - and the omission is significant. The servant who promised
   to pay all' (ver. 26) promised more than he could possibly perform;
   while he who undertook what he might reasonably perform, did not say
   all.'

   [4702] The Rabbinic Law was much more merciful than this apparently
   harsh (Roman or Herodian) administration of it. It laid it down that,
   just as when a person had owed to the Sanctuary a certain sum or his
   property, his goods might be distrained, but so much was to be deducted
   and left to the person, or given to him, as was needful for his
   sustenance, so was it to be between creditor and debtor. If a creditor
   distrained the goods of his debtor, he was bound to leave to the
   latter, if he had been a rich man, a sofa [to recline at table] and a
   couch and pillow; if the debtor had been a poor man, a sofa and a couch
   with a reed-mat [for coverlet] (Bab. Mets. 113 a and b). Nay, certain
   tools had to be returned for his use, nor was either the
   Sheriff-officer nor the creditor allowed to enter the house to make
   distraint. (As regards distraints for Vows, see Arach. 23 b, 24 a).

   [4703] St. Matt. xviii. 35.

   [4704] For example, Shem. R. 31.

   [4705] u. s.

   [4706] Bemidb. R. 19, ed. Warsh. p. 77 a.

   [4707] Comp. Shem. R. 31.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XX.
CHRIST'S DISCOURSES IN PERÆA - CLOSE OF THE PERÆAN MINISTRY

   (St. Luke xiii. 23-30, 31-35; xiv. 1-11, 25-35; xvii. 1-10.)


   From the Parables we now turn to such Discourses of the Lord as belong
   to this period of His Ministry. Their consideration may be the more
   brief, that throughout we find points of correspondence with previous
   or later portions of His teaching.

   Thus, the first of these Discourses, of which we have an outline,
   [4708] recalls some passages in the Sermon on the Mount,' [4709] as
   well as what our Lord had said on the occasion of healing the servant
   of the centurion. [4710] But, to take the first of these parallelisms,
   the differences are only the more marked for the similarity of form.
   These prove incontestably, not only the independence of the two
   Evangelists [4711] in their narratives, but, along with deeper
   underlying unity of thought in the teaching of Christ, its different
   application to different circumstances and persons. Let us mark this in
   the Discourse as outlined by St. Luke, and so gain fresh evidential
   confirmation of the trustworthiness of the Evangelic records.

   The words of our Lord, as recorded by St. Luke, [4712] are not spoken,
   as in The Sermon on the Mount,' in connection with His teaching to His
   disciples, but are in reply to a question addressed to Him by some one
   - we can scarcely doubt, a representative of the Pharisees: [4713]
   Lord, are they few, the saved ones [that are being saved]?' Viewed in
   connection with Christ's immediately preceding teaching about the
   Kingdom of God in its wide and deep spread, as the great Mustard-Tree
   from the tiniest seed, and as the Leaven hid, which pervaded three
   measures of meal, we can scarcely doubt that the word saved' bore
   reference, not to the eternal state of the soul, but to admission to
   the benefits of the Kingdom of God - the Messianic Kingdom, with its
   privileges and its judgments, such as the Pharisees understood it. The
   question, whether few' were to be saved, could not have been put from
   the Pharisaic point of view, if understood of personal salvation;
   [4714] while, on the other hand, if taken as applying to part in the
   near-expected Messianic Kingdom, it has its distinct parallel in the
   Rabbinic statement, that, as regarded the days of the Messiah (His
   Kingdom), it would be similar to what it had been at the entrance into
   the land of promise, when only two (Joshua and Caleb), out of all that
   generation, were allowed to have part in it. [4715] Again, it is only
   when understanding both the question of this Pharisee and the reply of
   our Lord as applying to the Kingdom of the Messiah - though each
   viewing the Kingdom' from his own standpoint - that we can understand
   the answering words of Christ in their natural and obvious sense,
   without either straining or adding to them a dogmatic gloss, such as
   could not have occurred to His hearers at the time. [4716]

   Thus viewed, we can mark the characteristic differences between this
   Discourse and the parallels in the Sermon on the Mount,' and understand
   their reason. As regarded entrance into the Messianic Kingdom, this
   Pharisee, and those whom he represented, are told, that this Kingdom
   was not theirs, as a matter of course - their question as to the rest
   of the world being only, whether few or many would share in it - but
   that all must struggle [4717] [agonise] to enter in through the narrow
   door.' [4718] When we remember, that in the Sermon on the Mount' the
   call was only to enter in,' we feel that we have now reached a period,
   when the access to the narrow door' was obstructed by the enmity of so
   many, and when it needed violence' to break through, and take the
   Kingdom' by force.' [4719] This personal breaking through the opposing
   multitude, in order to enter in through the narrow door, was in
   opposition to the many - the Pharisees and Jews generally - who were
   seeking to enter in, in their own way, never doubting success, but who
   would discover their terrible mistake. Then, when once the Master of
   the house is risen up,' to welcome His guests to the banquet, and has
   shut to the door, while they, standing without, vainly call upon Him to
   open it, and He replies: I know you not whence ye are,' would they
   begin to remind Him of those covenant-privileges on which, as Israel
   after the flesh, they had relied (we have eaten and drunk in Thy
   presence, and Thou hast taught in our streets'). To this He would reply
   by a repetition of His former words, now seen to imply a disavowal of
   all mere outward privileges, as constituting a claim to the Kingdom,
   grounding alike His disavowal and His refusal to open on their inward
   contrariety to the King and His Kingdom: Depart from Me, all ye workers
   of iniquity.' It was a banquet to the friends of the King: the
   inauguration of His Kingdom. When they found the door shut, they would,
   indeed, knock, in the confident expectation that their claims would at
   once be recognised, and they admitted. And when the Master of the house
   did not recognise them, as they had expected, and they reminded Him of
   their outward connection, He only repeated the same words as before,
   since it was not outward but inward relationship that qualified the
   guests, and theirs was not friendship, but antagonism to Him. Terrible
   would then be their sorrow and anguish, when they would see their own
   patriarchs (we have eaten and drunk in Thy Presence') and their own
   prophets (Thou hast taught in our streets') within, and yet themselves
   were excluded from what was peculiarly theirs - while from all parts of
   the heathen world the welcome guests would flock to the joyous feast.
   And here pre-eminently would the saying hold good, in opposition to
   Pharisaic claims and self-righteousness: There are last which shall be
   first, and there are first which shall be last.' [4720]

   As a further characteristic difference from the parallel passage in the
   Sermon on the Mount,' we note, that there the reference seems not to
   any special privileges in connection with the Messianic Kingdom, such
   as the Pharisees expected, but to admission into the Kingdom of Heaven
   generally. [4721] In regard to the latter also the highest outward
   claims would be found unavailing; but the expectation of admission was
   grounded rather on what was done, than on mere citizenship and its
   privileges. And here it deserves special notice, that in St. Luke's
   Gospel, where the claim is that of fellow-citizenship (eaten and drunk
   in Thy Presence, and Thou hast taught in our streets'), the reply is
   made, I know you not whence ye are;' while in the Sermon on the Mount,'
   where the claim is of what they had done in His Name, they are told: I
   never knew you.' In both cases the disavowal emphatically bears on the
   special plea which had been set up. With this, another slight
   difference may be connected, which is not brought out in the Authorised
   or in the Revised Version. Both in the Sermon on the Mount' [4722] and
   in St. Luke's Gospel, [4723] they who are bidden depart are designated
   as workers of iniquity.' But, whereas, in St. Matthew's Gospel the term
   (noma) really means lawlessness,' the word used in that of St. Luke
   should be rendered unrighteousness' [4724] (dika). Thus, the one class
   are excluded, despite the deeds which they plead, for their real
   contrariety to God's Law; the other, despite the plea of citizenship
   and privileges, for their unrighteousness. [4725] And here we may also
   note, as a last difference between the two Gospels, that in the
   prediction of the future bliss from which they were to be excluded, the
   Gospel of St. Luke, which had reported the plea that He had taught' in
   their streets,' adds, as it were in answer, to the names of the
   Patriarchs, [4726] mention of all the prophets.'

   2. The next Discourse, noted by St. Luke, [4727] had been spoken in
   that very day,' [4728] as the last. It was occasioned by a pretended
   warning of certain of the Pharisees' to depart from Peræa, which, with
   Galilee, was the territory of Herod Antipas, as else the Tetrarch would
   kill Him. We have previously [4729] shown reason for supposing secret
   intrigues between the Pharisaic party and Herod, and attributing the
   final imprisonment of the Baptist, at least in part, to their
   machinations. We also remember, how the conscience of the Tetrarch
   connected Christ with His murdered Forerunner, and that rightly, since,
   at least so far as the Pharisees wrought on the fears of that intensely
   jealous and suspicious prince, the imprisonment of John was as much due
   to his announcement of the Messiah as to the enmity of Herodias. On
   these grounds we can easily understand that Herod should have wished to
   see Jesus, [4730] not merely to gratify curiosity, nor in obedience to
   superstitious impulses, but to convince himself, whether He was really
   what was said of Him, and also to get Him into his power. Probably,
   therefore, the danger of which these Pharisees spoke might have been
   real enough, and they might have special reasons for knowing of it. But
   their suggestion, that Jesus should depart, could only have proceeded
   from a ruse to get Him Out of Peræa, where, evidently, His works of
   healing [4731] were largely attracting and influencing the people.

   But if our Lord would not be deterred by the fears of His disciples
   from going into Judæa, [4732] feeling that each one had his appointed
   working day, in the light of which he was safe, and during the brief
   duration of which he was bound to walk,' far less would He recede
   before His enemies. Pointing to their secret intrigues, He bade them,
   if they chose, go back to that fox,' and give to his low cunning, and
   to all similar attempts to hinder or arrest His Ministry, what would be
   a decisive answer, since it unfolded what He clearly forsaw in the near
   future. Depart?' [4733] -  yes, depart' ye to tell that fox,' I have
   still a brief and an appointed time [4734] to work, and then I am
   perfected,' in the sense in which we all readily understand the
   expression, as applying to His Work and Mission. Depart!' Yes, I must
   "depart," or go My brief appointed time: I know that at the goal of it
   is death, yet not at the hands of Herod, but in Jerusalem, the
   slaughter-house of them that "teach in her streets."'

   And so, remembering that this message to Herod was spoken in the very
   day, perhaps the very hour that He had declared how falsely the workers
   of wickedness' claimed admission on account of the teaching in their
   streets,' and that they would be excluded from the fellowship, not only
   of the fathers, but of all the prophets' whom they called their own -
   we see peculiar meaning in the reference to Jerusalem as the place
   where all the prophets perished. [4735] One, Who in no way indulged in
   illusions, but knew that He had an appointed time, during which He
   would work, and at the end of which He would perish,' and where He
   would so perish, could not be deterred either by the intrigues of the
   Pharisees nor by the thought of what a Herod might attempt - not do,
   which latter was in far other hands. But the thought of Jerusalem - of
   what it was, what it might have been, and what would come to it - may
   well have forced from the lips of Him, Who wept over it, a cry of
   mingled anguish, love, and warning. [4736] It may, indeed, be, that
   these very words, which are reported by St. Matthew in another, and
   manifestly most suitable, connection, [4737] [4738] are here quoted by
   St. Luke, because they fully express the thought to which Christ here
   first gave distinct utterance. But some such words, we can scarcely
   doubt, He did speak even now, when pointing to His near Decease in
   Jerusalem.

   3. The next in order of the Discourses recorded by St. Luke [4739] is
   that which prefaced the Parable of the Great Supper,' expounded in a
   previous chapter. [4740] The Rabbinic views on the Sabbath-Law have
   been so fully explained, that a very brief commentation will here
   suffice. It appears, that the Lord condescended to accept the
   invitation to a Sabbath-meal in the house of one of the Rulers of the
   Pharisees' - perhaps one of the Rulers of the Synagogue in which they
   had just worshipped, and where Christ may have taught. Without here
   discussing the motives for this invitation, its acceptance was
   certainly made use of to watch Him.' And the man with the dropsy had,
   no doubt, been introduced for a treacherous purpose, although it is not
   necessary to suppose that he himself had been privy to it. On the other
   hand, it is characteristic of the gracious Lord, that, with full
   knowledge of their purpose, He sat down with such companions, and that
   He did His Work of power and love unrestrained by their evil thoughts.
   But, even so, He must turn their wickedness also to good account. Yet
   we mark, that He first dismissed the man healed of the dropsy before He
   reproved the Pharisees. [4741] It was better so - for the sake of the
   guests, and for the healed man himself, whose mind quite new and
   blessed Sabbath-thoughts would fill, to which all controversy would be
   jarring.

   And, after his departure, the Lord first spake to them, as was His
   wont, concerning their misapplication of the Sabbath-Law, to which,
   indeed, their own practice gave the lie. They deemed it unlawful to
   heal' on the Sabbath-day, though, when He read their thoughts and
   purposes as against Him, they would not answer His question on the
   point. [4742] And yet, if a son, [4743] or even an ox,' of any of them,
   had fallen into a pit,' they would have found some valid legal reason
   for pulling him out! Then, as to their Sabbath-feast, and their
   invitation to Him, when thereby they wished to lure Him to evil - and,
   indeed, their much-boasted hospitality: all was characteristic of these
   Pharisees - only external show, with utter absence of all real love;
   only self-assumption, pride, and self-righteousness, together with
   contempt of all who were regarded as religiously or intellectually
   beneath them - chiefly of the unlearned' and sinners,' those in the
   streets and lanes' of their city, whom they considered as the poor, and
   the maimed, and the halt, and the blind.' [4744] Even among themselves
   there was strife about the first places' - such as, perhaps, Christ had
   on that occasion witnessed, [4745] amidst mock professions of humility,
   when, perhaps, the master of the house had afterwards, in true
   Pharisaic fashion, proceeded to re-arrange the guests according to
   their supposed dignity. And even the Rabbis had given advice to the
   same effect as Christ's [4746] - and of this His words may have
   reminded them. [4747]

   But further - addressing him who had so treacherously bidden Him to
   this feast, Christ showed how the principle of Pharisaism consisted in
   self-seeking, to the necessary exclusion of all true love. Referring,
   for the fuller explanation of His meaning, [4748] to a previous
   chapter, [4749] we content ourselves here with the remark, that this
   self-seeking and self-righteousness appeared even in what, perhaps,
   they most boasted of - their hospitality. For, if in an earlier Jewish
   record we read the beautiful words: Let thy house be open towards the
   street, and let the poor be the sons of thy house,' [4750] we have,
   also, this later comment on them, [4751] that Job had thus had his
   house opened to the four quarters of the globe for the poor, and that,
   when his calamities befell him, he remonstrated with God on the ground
   of his merits in this respect, to which answer was made, that he had in
   this matter come very far short of the merits of Abraham. So entirely
   self-introspective and self-seeking did Rabbinism become, and so
   contrary was its outcome to the spirit of Christ, the inmost meaning of
   Whose Work, as well as Words, was entire self-forgetfulness and
   self-surrender in love.

   4. In the fourth Discourse recorded by St. Luke, [4752] we pass from
   the parenthetic account of that Sabbath-meal in the house of the Ruler
   of the Pharisees,' back to where the narrative of the Pharisees' threat
   about Herod and the reply of Jesus had left us. [4753] And, if proof
   were required of the great influence exercised by Jesus, and which, as
   we have suggested, led to the attempt of the Pharisees to induce Christ
   to leave Peræa, it would be found in the opening notice, [4754] as well
   as in the Discourse itself which He spoke. Christ did depart - from
   that place, though not yet from Peræa; but with Him went great
   multitudes.' And, in view of their professed adhesion, it was needful,
   and now more emphatically than ever, to set before them all that
   discipleship really involved, alike of cost and of strength - the two
   latter points being illustrated by brief Parables' (in the wider sense
   of that term). Substantially, it was only what Christ had told the
   Twelve, when He sent them on their first Mission. [4755] Only it was
   now cast in a far stronger mould, as befitted the altered
   circumstances, in the near prospect of Christ's condemnation, with all
   that this would involve to His followers.

   At the outset we mark, that we are not here told what constituted the
   true disciple, but what would prevent a man from becoming such. Again,
   it was now no longer (as in the earlier address to the Twelve), that he
   who loved the nearest and dearest of earthly kin more than Christ - and
   hence clave to such rather than to Him - was not worthy of Him; nor
   that he who did not take his cross and follow after Him was not worthy
   of the Christ. Since then the enmity had ripened, and discipleship
   become impossible without actual renunciation of the nearest
   relationship, and, more than that, of life itself. [4756] Of course,
   the term hate' does not imply hatred of parents or relatives, or of
   life, in the ordinary sense. But it points to this, that, as outward
   separation, consequent upon men's antagonism to Christ, was before them
   in the near future, so, in the present, inward separation, a
   renunciation in mind and heart, preparatory to that outwardly, was
   absolutely necessary. And this immediate call was illustrated in
   twofold manner. A man who was about to begin building a tower, must
   count the cost of his undertaking. [4757] It was not enough that he was
   prepared to defray the expense of the foundations; he must look to the
   cost of the whole. So must they, in becoming disciples, look not on
   what was involved in the present following of Christ, but remember the
   cost of the final acknowledgement of Jesus. Again, if a king went to
   war, common prudence would lead him to consider whether his forces were
   equal to the great contest before him; else it were far better to
   withdraw in time, even though it involved humiliation, from what, in
   view of his weakness, would end in miserable defeat. [4758] So, and
   much more, must the intending disciple make complete inward surrender
   of all, deliberately counting the cost, and, in view of the coming
   trial, ask himself whether he had, indeed, sufficient inward strength -
   the force of love to Christ - to conquer. And thus discipleship, then,
   and, in measure, to all time, involves the necessity of complete inward
   surrender of everything for the love of Christ, so that if, and when,
   the time of outward trial comes, we may be prepared to conquer in the
   fight. [4759] He fights well, who has first fought and conquered
   within.

   Or else, and here Christ breaks once more into that pithy Jewish
   proverb - only, oh! how aptly, applying it to His disciples - Salt is
   good;' salt, if it have lost its savour, wherewith shall it be salted?'
   [4760] We have preferred quoting the proverb in its Jewish form, [4761]
   [4762] to show its popular origin. Salt in such condition was neither
   fit to improve the land, nor, on the other hand, to be mixed with the
   manure. The disciple who had lost his distinctiveness would neither
   benefit the land, nor was he even fit, as it were, for the dunghill,
   and could only be cast out. And so, let him that hath ears to hear,
   hear the warning!

   5. We have still to consider the last Discourses of Christ before the
   raising of Lazarus. [4763] As being addressed to the disciples, [4764]
   we have to connect them with the Discourse just commented upon. In
   point of fact, part of these admonitions had already been spoken on a
   previous occasion, and that more fully, to the disciples in Galilee.
   [4765] Only we must again bear in mind the difference of circumstances.
   Here, they immediately precede the raising of Lazarus, [4766] and they
   form the close of Christ's public Ministry in Peræa. Hence they come to
   us as Christ's parting admonitions to His Peræan followers.

   Thus viewed, they are intended to impress on the new disciples these
   four things: to be careful to give no offence; [4767] to be careful to
   take no offence; [4768] to be simple and earnest in their faith, and
   absolutely to trust its all-prevailing power; [4769] and yet, when they
   had made experience of it, not to be elated, but to remember their
   relation to their Master, that all was in His service, and that, after
   all, when everything had been done, they were but unprofitable
   servants. [4770] In other words, they urged upon the disciples
   holiness, love, faith, and service of self-surrender and humility.

   Most of these points have been already considered, when explaining the
   similar admonitions of Christ in Galilee. [4771] The four parts of this
   Discourse are broken by the prayer of the Apostles, who had formerly
   expressed their difficulty in regard to these very requirements: [4772]
   Add unto us faith.' It was upon this that the Lord spake to them, for
   their comfort, of the absolute power of even the smallest faith, [4773]
   and of the service and humility of faith. [4774] The latter was couched
   in a Parabolic form, well calculated to impress on them those feelings
   which would keep them lowly. They were but servants; and, even though
   they had done their work, the Master expected them to serve Him, before
   they sat down to their own meal and rest. Yet meal and rest there would
   be in the end. Only, let there not be self-elation, nor weariness, nor
   impatience; but let the Master and His service be all in all. Surely,
   if ever there was emphatic protest against the fundamental idea of
   Pharisaism, as claiming merit and reward, it was in the closing
   admonition of Christ's public Ministry in Peræa: When ye shall have
   done all those things which are commanded you, say, We are unprofitable
   servants; we have done that which was our duty to do.'

   And with these parting words did He most effectually and for ever
   separate, in heart and spirit, the Church from the Synagogue.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [4708] St. Luke xiii. 23-30.

   [4709] ver. 24; comp. St. Matt. vii. 13, 14; vv. 25-27; comp. St. Matt.
   viii., 21-23.

   [4710] vv. 28, 29; comp. St. Matt. vii. 21-23.

   [4711] St. Matthew and St Luke.

   [4712] St. Luke xiii. 23 &c.

   [4713] See also ver. 31.

   [4714] It is difficult to understand how Wünsche could have referred to
   Sukk. 45 b as a parallel, since anything more thoroughly contrary to
   all Christ's teaching can scarcely be imagined. Otherwise also the
   parallel is inapt. The curious reader will find the passage in detail
   in Schöttgen, on 1 Cor. xiii. 12 (p. 652).

   [4715] Sanh. 111 a.

   [4716] Thus, Canon Cook makes this distinction: They who are said to
   seek, seek (i.e. desire and wish) and no more. They do not struggle for
   admission.' But would any one be refused who sought, in the sense of
   desiring, or wishing?

   [4717] The word implies a real combat to get at the narrow door, not a
   large crowd ... struggling for admission.' The verb occurs besides in
   the following passages: St. John xviii. 36; 1 Cor. ix. 25; Col. i. 29;
   iv. 12; 1 Tim. vi. 12; 2 Tim. iv. 7.

   [4718] So according to the best reading.

   [4719] St. Matt. xi. 12.

   [4720] Comp. also St. Matt. xix. 30; xx. 16.

   [4721] St. Matt. vii. 21, 22.

   [4722] St. Matt. vii. 23.

   [4723] St. Luke xiii. 27.

   [4724] It is characteristic of higher' criticism when Hilgenfeld
   declares that the lawlessness' in St. Matthew's Gospel is intended as a
   covert hit at Pauline Christianity, and the unrighteousness' in St.
   Luke's as a retort upon Petrine or Jewish Christianity!

   [4725] Rom. ii.

   [4726] St. Matt. viii. 11.

   [4727] St. Luke xiii. 31-35.

   [4728] Perhaps we should rather read hour.'

   [4729] See Book III. chap. xxviii.

   [4730] St. Luke ix. 9.

   [4731] as spoken of in St. Luke xiii. 32.

   [4732] St. John xi. 8.

   [4733] The word poreesthai, ver. 31, is also used in ver. 32 go,' and
   ver. 33 walk.'

   [4734] The words to-day, and to-morrow, and the third day,' must not be
   taken as a literal, but as a well-known figurative expression. Thus we
   are told (Mechilta, Par. Bo, 18, towards end, ed. Weiss, p. 27 b),
   There is a "to-morrow" which is now [refers to the immediate present],
   and a "to-morrow" of a later time,' indicating a fixed period connected
   with the present, The latter, for example, in the passage illustrated
   in the Rabbinic quotation just made: Ex. xiii. 14, It shall be when thy
   son shall ask thee [literally] to-morrow,' in our A.V. in time to
   come.' So also Josh. xxii. 24. The third day' in such connection would
   be {hebrew}.

   [4735] Even the death of John the Baptist may, as indicated, be said to
   have been compassed in Jerusalem.

   [4736] vv. 34, 35.

   [4737] St. Matt. xxiii. 37-39.

   [4738] The words will be considered in connection with that passage.

   [4739] St. Luke xiv. 1-11.

   [4740] Chapter xvi.

   [4741] St. Luke xiv. 4.

   [4742] vv. 3, 4.

   [4743] So - and not ass' - according to the best reading.

   [4744] ver. 21.

   [4745] ver. 7-11.

   [4746] ver. 10.

   [4747] Almost precisely the same sayings occur in Ab. de Rabbi Nathan
   25 and Vayyikra R. 1.

   [4748] vv. 12-14.

   [4749] Chapter xvi.

   [4750] Ab. i. 5.

   [4751] Ab. de R. Nathan 7.

   [4752] St. Luke xiv. 25-35.

   [4753] xiii. 31-35.

   [4754] ver. 25.

   [4755] St. Matt. x. 37, 38.

   [4756] St. Luke xiv. 26.

   [4757] vv. 28-30.

   [4758] vv. 31, 32.

   [4759] ver. 33.

   [4760] vv. 34, 35.

   [4761] Bekhor. 8 b, lines 14, 13 from bottom.

   [4762] In the Talmud: {hebrew} [has an evil odour, is spoiled]
   {hebrew}.

   [4763] St. Luke xvii. 1-10.

   [4764] xvii. 1.

   [4765] vv. 1-4, comp. St. Matt. xviii. 6-35; ver. 6, comp. St. Matt.
   xvii. 20.

   [4766] St. John xi.

   [4767] St. Luke xvii. 1, 2.

   [4768] vv. 3, 4.

   [4769] ver. 6.

   [4770] vv. 7-10.

   [4771] See Book IV. chap. iii.

   [4772] St. Matt. xviii. 1-6, &c., 21, 22.

   [4773] St. Luke xvii. 6.

   [4774] vv. 7-10.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XXI.
THE DEATH AND THE RAISING OF LAZARUS - THE QUESTION OF MIRACLES AND OF THIS
MIRACLE OF MIRACLES - VIEWS OF NEGATIVE CRITICISM ON THIS HISTORY - JEWISH
BURYING-RITES AND SEPULCHRES.

   (St. John xi. 1-54.)

   From listening to the teaching of Christ, we turn once more to follow
   His working. It will be remembered, that the visit to Bethany divides
   the period from the Feast of the Dedication to the last Paschal week
   into two parts. It also forms the prelude and preparation for the awful
   events of the End. For, it was on that occasion that the members of the
   Sanhedrin formally resolved on His Death. It now only remained to
   settle and carry out the plans for giving effect to their purpose.

   This is one aspect of it. There is yet another and more solemn one. The
   raising of Lazarus marks the highest point (not in the Manifestation,
   but) in the ministry of our Lord; it is the climax in a history where
   all is miraculous - the Person, the Life, the Words, the Work. As
   regards Himself, we have here the fullest evidence alike of His
   Divinity and Humanity; as regards those who witnessed it, the highest
   manifestation of faith and of unbelief. Here, on this height, the two
   ways finally meet and part. And from this high point - not only from
   the resolution of the Sanhedrists, but from the raising of Lazarus - we
   have our first clear outlook on the Death and Resurrection of Christ,
   of which the raising of Lazarus was the typical prelude. From this
   height, also, have we an outlook upon the gathering of the Church at
   His empty Tomb, where the precious words spoken at the grave of Lazarus
   received their full meaning - till Death shall be no more. But chiefly
   do we now think of it as the Miracle of Miracles in the history of the
   Christ. He had, indeed, before this raised the dead; but it had been in
   far-off Galilee, and in circumstances essentially different. But now it
   would be one so well known as Lazarus, at the very gates of Jerusalem,
   in the sight of all men, and amidst surroundings which admitted not of
   mistake or doubt. If this Miracle be true, we instinctively feel all is
   true; and Spinoza was right in saying, [4775] that if he could believe
   the raising of Lazarus, he would tear to shreds his system, and humbly
   accept the creed of Christians.

   But is it true? We have reached a stage in this history when such a
   question, always most painful, might seem almost uncalled for. For,
   gradually and with increasing clearness, we have learned the
   trustworthiness of the Evangelic records; and, as we have followed Him,
   the conviction has deepened into joyous assurance, that He, Who spake,
   lived, and wrought as none other, is in very deed the Christ of God.
   And yet we ask ourselves here this question again, on account of its
   absolute and infinite importance; because this may be regarded as the
   highest and decisive moment in this History; because, in truth, it is
   to the historical faith of the Church what the great Confession of
   Peter was to that of the disciples. And, although such an inquiry may
   seem like the jarring of a discord in Heaven's own melody, we pursue
   it, feeling that, in so doing, we are not discussing what is doubtful,
   but rather setting forth the evidence of what is certain, for the
   confirmation of the faith of our hearts, and, as we humbly trust, for
   the establishment of the faith as it is in Jesus.

   At the outset, we must here once more meet, however briefly, the
   preliminary difficulty in regard to Miracles, of which the raising of
   Lazarus is, we shall not say, the greatest - for comparison is not
   possible on such a point - but the most notable. Undoubtedly, a Miracle
   runs counter, not only to our experience, but to the facts on which our
   experience is grounded; and can only be accounted for by a direct
   Divine interposition, which also runs counter to our experience,
   although it cannot logically be said to run counter to the facts on
   which that experience is grounded. Beyond this it is impossible to go,
   since the argument on other grounds than of experience, be it
   phenomenal [observation and historical information] or real [knowledge
   of laws and principles] - would necessitate knowledge alike of all the
   laws of Nature and of all the secrets of Heaven.

   On the other hand (as indicated in a previous part [4776] ), to argue
   this point only on the ground of experience (phenomenal or real), were
   not only reasoning à priori, but in a vicious circle. It would really
   amount to this: A thing has not been, because it cannot be; and it
   cannot be, because, so far as I know, it is not and has not been. But,
   to deny on such à priori prejudgment the possibility of Miracles,
   ultimately involves a denial of a Living, Reigning God. For, the
   existence of a God implies at least the possibility, in certain
   circumstances it may be the rational necessity, of Miracles. And the
   same grounds of experience, which tell against the occurrence of a
   Miracle, would equally apply against belief in a God. We have as little
   ground in experience (of a physical kind) for the one as for the other.
   This is not said to deter inquiry, but for the sake of our argument.
   For, we confidently assert and challenge experiment of it, that
   disbelief in a God, or Materialism, involves infinitely more
   difficulties, and that at every step and in regard to all things, than
   the faith of the Christian.

   But we instinctively feel that such a Miracle as the raising of Lazarus
   calls for more than merely logical formulas. Heart and mind crave for
   higher than questions of what may be logically possible or impossible.
   We want, so to speak, living evidence, and we have it. We have it,
   first of all, in the Person of the Incarnate God, Who not only came to
   abolish death, but in Whose Presence the continuance of disease and
   death was impossible. And we have it also in the narrative of the event
   itself. It were, indeed, an absurd demand to prove a Miracle, since to
   do so were to show that it was not a Miracle. But we may be rationally
   asked these three things: first, to show, that no other explanation is
   rationally possible than that which proceeds on the ground of its being
   a Miracle; secondly, to show, that such a view of it is consistent with
   itself and with all the details of the narrative; and, thirdly, that it
   is harmonious with what precedes and what follows the narrative. The
   second and third of these arguments will be the outcome of our later
   study of the history of this event; the first, that no other
   explanation of the narrative is rationally possible, must now be
   briefly attempted.

   We may here dismiss, as what would not be entertained by any one
   familiar with historical inquiries, the idea that such a narrative
   could be an absolute invention, ungrounded on any fact. Again, we may
   put aside as repugnant to, at least English, common sense, the theory
   that the narrative is consistent with the idea that Lazarus was not
   really dead (so, the Rationalists). Nor would any one, who had the
   faintest sympathy with the moral standpoint of the Gospels, entertain
   the view of M. Renan, [4777] that it was all a pious fraud' concocted
   between all parties, and that, in order to convert Jerusalem by a
   signal miracle, Lazarus had himself dressed up as a dead body and laid
   in the family tomb. Scarcely more rational is M. Renan's latest
   suggestion, that it was all a misunderstanding: Martha and Mary having
   told Jesus the wish of friends, that He should do some notable miracle
   to convince the Jews, and suggesting that they would believe if one
   rose from the dead, when He had replied, that they would not believe
   even if Lazarus rose from his grave - and that tradition had
   transformed this conversation into an actual event! Nor, finally, would
   English common sense readily believe (with Baur), that the whole
   narrative was an ideal composition to illustrate what must be regarded
   as the metaphysical statement: I am the Resurrection and the Life.'
   Among ourselves, at least, no serious refutation of these and similar
   views can be necessary.

   Nor do the other theories advanced require lengthened discussion. The
   mythical explanation of Strauss is, that as the Old Testament had
   recorded instances of raising from the dead, so Christian tradition
   must needs ascribe the same to the Messiah. To this (without repeating
   the detailed refutation made by Renan and Baur), it is sufficient to
   reply: The previous history of Christ had already offered such
   instances, why needlessly multiply them? Besides, if it had been a
   legend,' such full and minute details would not have been introduced,
   and while the human element would have been suppressed, the miraculous
   would have been far more accentuated. Only one other theory on the
   subject requires notice: that the writer of the Fourth Gospel, or
   rather early tradition, had transformed the Parable of Dives and
   Lazarus into an actual event. In answer, it is sufficient to say:
   first, that (as previously shown) there is no connection between the
   Lazarus of the Parable and him of Bethany; secondly, that, if it had
   been a Parable transformed, the characters chosen would not have been
   real persons, and that they were such is evident from the mention of
   the family in different circumstances in the three Synoptic Gospels,
   [4778] of which the writer of the Fourth Gospel was fully aware. [4779]
   Lastly, as Godet remarks, whereas the Parable closes by declaring that
   the Jews would not believe even if one rose from the dead, the
   Narrative closes on this wise: [4780] Many therefore of the Jews, which
   came to Mary and beheld that which He did, believed on Him.' [4781]

   In view of these proposed explanations, we appeal to the impartial
   reader, whether any of them rationally accounts for the origin and
   existence of this history in Apostolic tradition? On the other hand,
   everything is clear and consistent on the supposition of the historical
   truth of this narrative: the minuteness of details; the vividness and
   pictorialness of the narrative: the characteristic manner in which
   Thomas, Martha, and Mary speak and act, in accordance with what we read
   of them in the other Gospels or in other parts of this Gospel; the
   Human affection of the Christ; the sublime simplicity and majesty of
   the manner of the Miracle; and the effects of it on friend and foe.
   There is, indeed, this one difficulty (not objection), that the event
   is not mentioned in the Synoptic Gospels. But we know too little of the
   plan on which the Gospels, viewed as Lives of Christ, were constructed,
   to allow us to draw any sufficient inference from the silence of the
   Synoptists, whilst we do know that the Judæan and Jerusalem Ministry of
   Christ, except so far as it was absolutely necessary to refer to it,
   lay outside the plan of the Synoptic Gospels, and formed the special
   subject of that by St. John. Lastly, we should remember, that in the
   then state of thought the introduction of another narrative of raising
   from the dead could not have seemed to them of such importance as it
   appears to us in the present state of controversy - more especially,
   since it was soon to be followed by another Resurrection, the
   importance and evidential value of which far overshadowed such an event
   as the raising of Lazarus. Their Galilean readers had the story of the
   raising of the window's son at Nain, and of Jairus' daughter at
   Capernaum; and the Roman world had not only all this, but the preaching
   of the Resurrection, and of pardon and life in the Name of the Risen
   One, together with ocular demonstration of the miraculous power of
   those who preached it. It remained for the beloved disciple, who alone
   stood under the Cross, alone to stand on that height from which he had
   first full and intense outlook upon His Death, and the Life which
   sprang from it, and flowed into all the world.

   We may now, undisturbed by preliminary objections, surrender ourselves
   to the sublimeness and solemnity of this narrative. Perhaps the more
   briefly we comment on it the better.

   It was while in Peræa, that this message suddenly reached the Master
   from the well-remembered home at Bethany, the village of Mary' - who,
   although the younger, is for obvious reasons first mentioned in this
   history - and her sister Martha,' concerning their (younger) brother
   Lazarus: Lord, behold he whom Thou lovest is sick!' They are apparently
   the very words which the sisters' bade their messenger tell. We note as
   an important fact to be stored in our memory, that the Lazarus, who had
   not even been mentioned in the only account preserved to us of a
   previous visit of Christ to Bethany, [4782] is described as he whom
   Christ loved.' What a gap of untold events between the two visits of
   Christ to Bethany - and what modesty should it teach us as regards
   inferences from the circumstance that certain events are not recorded
   in the Gospels! The messenger was apparently dismissed by Christ with
   this reply: This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God,
   in order that the Son of God may be glorified thereby.' We must here
   bear in mind, that this answer was heard by such of the Apostles as
   were present at the time. [4783] They would naturally infer from it
   that Lazarus would not die, and that his restoration would glorify
   Christ, either as having foretold it, or prayed for it, or effected it
   by His Will. Yet its true meaning - even, as we now see, its literal
   interpretation, was, that its final upshot was not to be the death of
   Lazarus, but that it was to be for the glory of God, in order that
   Christ as the Son of God might be made manifest. And we learn, how much
   more full are the Words of Christ than they often appear to us; and how
   truly, and even literally, they may bear quite another meaning than
   appears to our honest misapprehension of them - a meaning which only
   the event, the future, will disclose.

   And yet, probably at the very time when the messenger received his
   answer, and ere he could have brought it to the sisters, Lazarus was
   already dead! Nor - and this should be especially marked - did this
   awaken doubt in the minds of the sisters. We seem to hear the very
   words which at the time they said to each other when each of them
   afterwards repeated it to the Lord: Lord, if Thou hadst been here, my
   brother would not have died.' [4784] They probably thought the message
   had reached Him too late, that Lazarus would have lived if Christ had
   been appealed to in time, or had been able to come - at any rate, if He
   had been there. Even in their keenest anguish, there was no failure of
   trust, no doubt, no close weighing of words on their part - only the
   confidence of love. Yet all this while Christ knew that Lazarus had
   died, and still He continued two whole days where He was, finishing His
   work. And yet - and this is significantly noted before anything else,
   alike in regard to His delay and to His after-conduct - He loved
   Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus.' Had there been no after-history,
   or had it not been known to us, or before it became known, it might
   have seemed otherwise - and in similar circumstances it often does seem
   otherwise to us. And again, what majestic calm, what Self-restraint of
   Human affections and sublime consciousness of Divine Power in this
   delay: it is once more Christ asleep, while the disciples are
   despairing, in the bark almost swamped in the storm! Christ is never in
   haste: least of all, on His errands of love. And He is never in haste,
   because He is always sure.

   It was only after these two days that Christ broke silence as to His
   purposes and as to Lazarus. Though thoughts of him must have been
   present with the disciples, none dared ask aught, although not from
   misgiving, nor yet from fear. This also of faith and of confidence. At
   last, when His work in that part had been completed, He spoke of
   leaving, but even so not of going to Bethany, but into Judæa. For, in
   truth, His work in Bethany was not only geographically, but really,
   part of His work in Judæa; and He told the disciples of His purpose,
   just because He knew their fears and would teach them, not only for
   this but for every future occasion, what principle applied to them. For
   when, in their care and affection, they reminded the Rabbi' - and the
   expression here almost jars on us - that the Jews were even now seeking
   to stone' Him, He replied by telling them, in figurative language, that
   we have each our working day from God, and that while it lasts no foe
   can shorten it or break up or work. The day had twelve hours, and while
   these lasted no mishap would befall him that walked in the way [he
   stumbleth not, because he seeth the light of this world]. It was
   otherwise when the day was past and the night had come. When our
   God-given day has set, and with it the light been withdrawn which
   hitherto prevented our stumbling - then, if a man went in his own way
   and at his own time, might such mishap befall him, because,'
   figuratively as to light in the night-time, and really as to guidance
   and direction in the way, the light is not in him.'

   But this was only part of what Jesus said to His disciples in
   preparation for a journey that would issue in such tremendous
   consequences. He next spoke of Lazarus, their friend,' as fallen
   asleep' - in the frequent Jewish (as well as Christian) figurative
   sense of it, [4785] and of His going there to wake him out of sleep.
   The disciples would naturally connect this mention of His going to
   Lazarus with His proposed visit to Judæa, and, in their eagerness to
   keep Him from the latter, interposed that there could be no need for
   going to Lazarus, since sleep was, according to Jewish notions, one of
   the six, [4786] or, according to others, [4787] five symptoms or crises
   in recovery from dangerous illness. And when the Lord then plainly
   stated it, Lazarus died,' adding, what should have aroused their
   attention, that for their sakes He was glad He had not been in Bethany
   before the event, because now that would come which would work faith in
   them, and proposed to go to the dead Lazarus - even then, their whole
   attention was so absorbed by the certainty of danger to their loved
   Teacher, that Thomas had only one thought: since it was to be so, let
   them go and die with Jesus. So little had they understood the
   figurative language about the twelve hours on which God's sun shone to
   light us on our way; so much did they need the lesson of faith to be
   taught them in the raising of Lazarus!

   We already know the quiet happy home of Bethany. [4788] When Jesus
   reached it, He found' - probably from those who met Him by the way
   [4789] [4790] - that Lazarus had been already four days in the grave.
   According to custom, he would be buried the same day that he had died.
   [4791] Supposing his death to have taken place when the message for
   help was first delivered, while Jesus continued after that two whole
   days in the place where He was, this would leave about a day for His
   journey from Peræa to Bethany. We do not, indeed, know the exact place
   of His stay; but it must have been some well-known centre of activity
   in Peræa, since the sisters of Bethany had no difficulty in sending
   their messenger. At the same time we also infer that, at least at this
   period, some kind of communication must have existed between Christ and
   His more intimate disciples and friends, such as the family of Bethany
   - by which they were kept informed of the general plan of His
   Mission-journeys, and of any central station of His temporary sojourn.
   If Christ at that time occupied such a central station, we can the more
   readily understand how some of His Galilean disciples may, for a brief
   space, have been absent at their Galilean homes when the tidings about
   Lazarus arrived. Their absence may explain the prominent position taken
   by Thomas; perhaps, also, in part, the omission of this narrative from
   the Synoptic Gospels. One other point may be of interest. Supposing the
   journey to Bethany to have occupied a day, we would suggest the
   following as the order of events. The messenger of the Sisters left
   Bethany on the Sunday (it could not have been on the Sabbath), and
   reached Jesus on the Monday. Christ continued in Peræa other two days,
   till Wednesday, and arrived at Bethany on Thursday. On Friday the
   meeting of the Sanhedrists against Christ took place, while He rested
   in Bethany on the Friday, and, of course, on the Sabbath, and returned
   to Peræa and Ephraim' on the Sunday.

   This may be a convenient place for adding to the account already given,
   [4792] in connection with the burying of the widow's son at Nain, such
   further particulars of the Jewish observances and rites, [4793] as may
   illustrate the present history. Referring to the previous description,
   we resume, in imagination, our attendance at the point where Christ met
   the bier at Nain and again gave life to the dead. But we remember that,
   as we are now in Judæa, the hired mourners - both mourning-men (for
   there were such) and mourning-women - would follow, and not, as in
   Galilee, precede, the body. [4794] From the narrative we infer that the
   burial of Lazarus did not take place in a common burying-ground, which
   was never nearer a town than 50 cubits, [4795] dry and rocky places
   being chosen in preference. Here the graves must be at least a foot and
   a half apart. It was deemed a dishonour to the dead to stand on, or
   walk over, the turf of a grave. Roses and other flowers seem to have
   been planted on graves. [4796] But cemeteries, or common
   burying-places, appear in earliest times to have been used only for the
   poor, [4797] or for strangers. [4798] In Jerusalem there were also two
   places where executed criminals were buried. [4799] All these, it is
   needless to say, were outside the City. But there is abundant evidence,
   that every place had not its own burying-ground; and that, not
   unfrequently, provision had to be made for the transport of bodies.
   Indeed, a burying-place is not mentioned among the ten requisites for
   every fully-organised Jewish community. [4800] The names given, both to
   the graves and to the burying-place itself, are of interest. As regards
   the former, we mention such as the house of silence;' [4801] the house
   of stone;' [4802] the hostelry,' or, literally, place where you spend
   the night;' the couch;' the resting-place;' the valley of the
   multitude,' or of the dead.' The cemetery was called the house of
   graves;' [4803] or the court of burying;' and the house of eternity.'
   By a euphemism, to die' was designated as going to rest,' been
   completed;' being gathered to the world' or to the home of light;'
   being withdrawn,' or hidden.' Burial without coffin seems to have
   continued the practice for a considerable time, and rules are given how
   a pit, the size of the body, was to be dug, and surrounded by a wall of
   loose stones to prevent the falling in of earth. When afterwards
   earth-burials had to be vindicated against the Parsee idea of
   cremation, Jewish divines more fully discussed the question of burial,
   and described the committal of the body to the ground as a sort of
   expiation. [4804] It was a curious later practice, that children who
   had died a few days after birth were circumcised on their graves.
   Children not a month old were buried without coffin or mourning, and,
   as some have thought, in a special place. [4805] In connection with a
   recent controversy it is interesting to learn that, for the sake of
   peace, just as the poor and sick of the Gentiles might be fed and
   nursed as well as those of the Jews, so their dead might be buried with
   those of the Jews, though not in their graves. [4806] On the other
   hand, a wicked person should not be buried close to a sage. [4807]
   Suicides were not accorded all the honours of those who had died a
   natural death, and the bodies of executed criminals were laid in a
   special place, whence the relatives might after a time remove their
   bones. [4808] The burial terminated by casting earth on the grave.
   [4809]

   But, as already stated, Lazarus was, as became his station, not laid in
   a cemetery, but in his own private tomb in a cave - probably in a
   garden, the favourite place of interment. Though on terms of close
   friendship with Jesus, he was evidently not regarded as an apostate
   from the Synagogue. For, every indignity was shown at the burial of an
   apostate; people were even to array themselves in white festive
   garments to make demonstration of joy. [4810] Here, on the contrary, as
   we gather from the sequel, every mark of sympathy, respect, and sorrow
   had been shown by the people in the district and by friends in the
   neighbouring Jerusalem. In such case it would be regarded as a
   privilege to obey the Rabbinic direction of accompanying the dead, so
   as to show honour to the departed and kindness to the survivors. As the
   sisters of Bethany were disciples,' we may well believe that some of
   the more extravagant demonstrations of grief were, if not dispensed
   with, yet modified. We can scarcely believe, that the hired mourners'
   would alternate between extravagant praises of the dead and calls upon
   the attendants to lament; [4811] or that, as was their wont, they would
   strike on their breast, beat their hands, and dash about their feet,
   [4812] or break into wails and mournings songs, alone or in chorus.
   [4813] In all probability, however, the funeral oration would be
   delivered - as in the case of all distinguished persons [4814] - either
   in the house, [4815] or at one of the stations where the bearers
   changed, or at the burying-place; perhaps, if they passed it, in the
   Synagogue. [4816] It has previously been noted, what extravagant value
   was, in later times, attached to these orations, as indicating both a
   man's life on earth and his place in heaven. [4817] The dead was
   supposed to be present, listening to the words of the speaker and
   watching the expression on the face of the hearers. It would serve no
   good purpose to reproduce fragments from these orations. [4818] Their
   character is sufficiently indicated by the above remarks. [4819]

   When thinking of these tombs in gardens, [4820] we so naturally revert
   to that which for three days held the Lord of Life, that all details
   become deeply interesting. And it is, perhaps, better to give them here
   rather than afterwards to interrupt, by such inquiries, our solemn
   thoughts in presence of the Crucified Christ. Not only the rich, but
   even those moderately well-to-do, had tombs of their own, which
   probably were acquired and prepared long before they were needed, and
   treated and inherited as private and personal property. [4821] In such
   caves, or rock-hewn tombs, the bodies were laid, having been anointed
   with many spices, [4822] with myrtle, [4823] aloes, and, at a later
   period, also with hyssop, rose-oil, and rose-water. The body was
   dressed and, at a later period, wrapped, if possible, in the worn
   cloths in which originally a Roll of the Law had been held. [4824] The
   tombs' were either rock-hewn' or natural caves' [4825] or else large
   walled vaults, with niches along the sides. Such a cave' or vault' of 4
   cubits' (6 feet) width, 6 cubits' (9 feet) length, and 4 cubits' (6
   feet) height, contained niches' for eight bodies - three on each of the
   longitudinal sides, and two at the end opposite the entrance. Each
   niche' was 4 cubits (6 feet) long, and had a height of seven and a
   width of six handbreadths. As these burying niches' were hollowed out
   in the walls they were called Kukhin. [4826] The larger caves or vaults
   were 6 cubits (9 feet) wide, and 8 cubits (12 feet) long, and held
   thirteen bodies - four along each side-wall, three opposite to, and one
   on either side of the entrance. [4827] These figures apply, of course,
   only to what the Law required, when a vault had been contracted for.
   When a person constructed one for himself, the dimensions of the walls
   and the number of Kukhin might, of course, vary. At the entrance to the
   vault was a court' 6 cubits (9 feet) square, to hold the bier and its
   bearers. Sometimes two caves' opened on this court.' But it is
   difficult to decide whether the second cave,' spoken of, was intended
   as an ossary [4828] (ossarium). Certain it is, that after a time the
   bones were collected and put into a box or coffin, having first been
   anointed with wine and oil, and being held together by wrappings of
   cloths. [4829] This circumstance explains the existence of the mortuary
   chests, or osteophagi, so frequently found in the tombs of Palestine by
   late explorers, who have been unable to explain their meaning. [4830]
   This unclearness [4831] is much to be regretted, when we read, for
   example, of such a chest' as found in a cave near Bethany. [4832] One
   of the explorers [4833] has discovered on them fragments of Hebrew
   inscriptions. Up to the present, only few Hebrew memorial inscriptions
   have been discovered in Palestine. The most interesting are those in or
   near Jerusalem, dating from the first century b.c. to the first a.d.
   [4834] There are, also, many inscriptions found on Jewish tombs out of
   Palestine (in Rome, and other places), written in bad Greek or Latin,
   containing, perhaps, a Hebrew word, and generally ending with shalom,
   peace,' and adorned with Jewish symbols, such as the Seven-branched
   Candlestick, the Ark, the festive emblems of the Feast of Tabernacles,
   and others. [4835] In general, the advice not to read such
   inscriptions, [4836] as it would affect the sight, seems to imply the
   common practice of having memorial inscriptions in Hebrew. They appear
   to have been graven either on the lid of the mortuary chest, or on the
   Golel, or great stone rolled' at the entrance to the vault, or to the
   court' leading into it, or else on the inside walls of yet another
   erection, made over the vaults of the wealthy, [4837] and which was
   supposed to complete the burying-place, or Qebher.

   These small buildings surmounting the graves may have served as shelter
   to those who visited the tombs. They also served as monuments,' [4838]
   of which we read in the Bible, in the Apocrypha, [4839] and in
   Josephus. [4840] [4841] In Rabbinic writings they are frequently
   mentioned, chiefly by the name Nephesh, [4842] soul,' person' -
   transferred in the sense of monument,' [4843] or, by the more
   Scriptural name of bamah, [4844] or, by the Greco-Aramaic, [4845] or
   the Hebrew designation for a building generally. But of gravestones
   with inscriptions we cannot find any record in Talmudic works. At the
   same time, the place where there was a vault or a grave was marked by a
   stone, which was kept whitened, [4846] to warn the passer-by against
   defilement. [4847]

   We are now able fully to realise all the circumstances and surroundings
   in the burial and raising of Lazarus.

   Jesus had come to Bethany. But in the house of mourning they knew it
   not. As Bethany was only about fifteen furlongs - or about two miles -
   from Jerusalem, many from the City, who were on terms of friendship
   with what was evidently a distinguished family, had come in obedience
   to one of the most binding Rabbinic directions - that of comforting the
   mourners. In the funeral procession the sexes had been separated, and
   the practice probably prevailed even at that time for the women to
   return alone from the grave. This may explain why afterwards the women
   went and returned alone to the Tomb of our Lord. The mourning, which
   began before the burial, [4848] had been shared by the friends who sat
   silent on the ground, or were busy preparing the mourning meal. As the
   company left the dead, each had taken leave of the deceased with a
   Depart in peace!' [4849] Then they had formed into lines, through which
   the mourners passed amidst expressions of sympathy, repeated (at least
   seven times) as the procession halted on the return to the house of
   mourning. [4850] Then began the mourning in the house, which really
   lasted thirty days, of which the first three were those of greatest,
   the others, during the seven days, or the special week of sorrow, of
   less intense mourning. But on the Sabbath, as God's holy day, all
   mourning was intermitted - and so they rested on the Sabbath, according
   to the commandment.'

   In that household of disciples this mourning would not have assumed
   such violent forms, as when we read that the women were in the habit of
   tearing out their hair, [4851] or of a Rabbi who publicly scourged
   himself. [4852] But we know how the dead would be spoken of. In death
   the two worlds were said to meet and kiss. [4853] And now they who had
   passed away beheld God. [4854] They were at rest. Such beautiful
   passages as Ps. cxii. 6, Prov. x. 7, [4855] Is. xi. 10, last clause,
   and Is. lvii. 2, [4856] were applied to them. Nay, the holy dead should
   be called living.' In truth, they knew about us, and unseen still
   surrounded us. [4857] Nor should they ever be mentioned without adding
   a blessing on their memory. [4858]

   In this spirit, we cannot doubt, the Jews were now comforting' the
   sisters. They may have repeated words like those quoted as the
   conclusion of such a consolatory speech: [4859] May the Lord of
   consolations ({hebrew}) comfort you! Blessed be He Who comforteth the
   mourners!' But they could scarcely have imagined how literally a wish
   like this was about to be fulfilled. For, already, the message had
   reached Martha, who was probably in one of the outer apartments of the
   house: Jesus is coming! She hastened to meet the Master. Not a word of
   complaint, not a murmur, nor doubt, escaped her lips - only what during
   those four bitter days these two sisters must have been so often saying
   to each other, when the luxury of solitude was allowed them, that if He
   had been there their brother would not have died. And even now - when
   it was all too late - when they had not received what they had asked of
   Him by their messenger, it must have been, because He had not asked it,
   though he had said that this sickness was not unto death; or else
   because he had delayed to work it till He would come. And still she
   held fast by it, that even now God would give Him whatsoever He asked.
   Or, did they mean more: were they such words of unconscious prophecy,
   or sight and sound of heavenly things, as sometimes come to us in our
   passion of grief, or else winged thoughts of faith too soon beyond our
   vision? They could not have been the expression of any real hope of the
   miracle about to take place, or Martha would not have afterwards sought
   to arrest Him, when He bade them roll away the stone. And yet is not
   even so, that, when that comes to us which our faith had once dared to
   suggest, if not to hope, we feel as if it were all too great and
   impossible, that a very physical cannot be' separates us from it?

   It was in very truth and literality that the Lord meant it, when He
   told Martha her brother would rise again, although she understood His
   Words of the Resurrection at the Last Day. In answer, Christ pointed
   out to her the connection between Himself and the Resurrection; and,
   what He spoke, that He did when He raised Lazarus from the dead. The
   Resurrection and the Life are not special gifts either to the Church or
   to humanity, but are connected with the Christ - the outcome of
   Himself. The Resurrection of the Just and the General Resurrection are
   the consequence of the relation in which the Church and humanity in
   general stand to the Christ. Without the Christ there would have been
   no Resurrection. Most literally He is the Resurrection and the Life -
   and this, the new teaching about the Resurrection, was the object and
   the meaning of the raising of Lazarus. And thus is this raising of
   Lazarus the outlook, also, upon His own Resurrection, Who is the
   first-fruits from the dead.'

   And though the special, then present, application, or rather
   manifestation of it, would be in the raising of Lazarus - yet this
   teaching, that accompanied it, is to all believers:' He that believeth
   in Me, even if [though] he die, shall live; and whosoever liveth and
   believeth in Me shall not die for ever' [4860] (unto the Æon) - where
   possibly we might, for commentation, mentally insert the sign of a
   pause ( - ) between the words die' and for ever,' or unto the Æon.' It
   is only when we think of the meaning of Christ's previous words, as
   implying that the Resurrection and the Life are the outcome of Himself,
   and come to us only through Him and in Him, that we can understand the
   answer of Martha to His question: Believest thou this?' Yea, Lord, I
   have believed that thou art the Christ, the Son of God [with special
   reference to the original message of Christ [4861] ], He that cometh
   into the world [the Coming One into the world' [4862] = the world's
   promised, expected, come Saviour].

   What else passed between them we can only gather from the context. It
   seems that the Master called' for Mary. This message Martha now hasted
   to deliver, although secretly.' Mary was probably sitting in the
   chamber of mourning, with its upset chairs and couches, and other
   melancholy tokens of mourning, as was the custom; surrounded by many
   who had come to comfort them; herself, we can scarcely doubt, silent,
   her thoughts far away in that world to, and of which the Master was to
   her the Way, the Truth, and the Life.' As she heard of His coming and
   call, she rose quickly,' and the Jews followed her, under the
   impression that she was again going to visit, and to sweep at the tomb
   of her brother. For, it was the practice to visit the grave, especially
   during the first three days. [4863] When she came to Jesus, where He
   still stood, outside Bethany, she was forgetful of all around. It was,
   as if sight of Him melted what had frozen the tide of her feelings. She
   could only fall at His Feet, and repeat the poor words with which she
   and her sister had these four weary days tried to cover the nakedness
   of their sorrow: poor words of consolation, and poor words of faith,
   which she did not, like her sister, make still poorer of by adding the
   poverty of her hope to that of her faith - the poverty of the future to
   that of the past and present. To Martha that had been the maximum, to
   Mary it was the minimum of her faith; for the rest, it was far, far
   better to add nothing more, but simply to worship at His Feet.

   It must have been a deeply touching scene: the outpouring of her
   sorrow, the absoluteness of her faith, the mute appeal of her tears.
   And the Jews who witnessed it were moved as she, and wept with her.
   What follows is difficult to understand; still more difficult to
   explain: not only from the choice of language, which is peculiarly
   difficult, but because its difficulty springs from the yet greater
   difficulty of expressing what it is intended to describe. The
   expression, groaned in spirit,' cannot mean that Christ was moved with
   indignation in the spirit,' since this could not have been the
   consequence of witnessing the tears of Mary and what, we feel sure, was
   the genuine emotion of the Jews. Of the various interpretations, [4864]
   that commends itself most to us, which would render the expression: He
   vehemently moved His Spirit and troubled Himself.' One, whose insight
   into such questions is peculiarly deep, has reminded us [4865] that the
   miracles of the Lord were not wrought by the simple word of power, but
   that in a mysterious way the element of sympathy entered into them. He
   took away the sufferings and diseases of men in some sense by taking
   them upon Himself.' If, with this most just view of His Condescension
   to, and union with, humanity as its Healer, by taking upon Himself its
   diseases, we combine the statement formerly made about the
   Resurrection, as not a gift or boon but the outcome of Himself - we
   may, in some way, not understand, but be able to gaze into, the
   unfathomed depth of that The anthropic fellow-suffering which was both
   vicarious and redemptive, and which, before He became the Resurrection
   to Lazarus, shook His whole inner Being, when, in the words of St.
   John, He vehemently moved His Spirit and troubled Himself.'

   And now every trait is in accord. Where have ye laid him?' So truly
   human - as if He, Who was about to raise the dead, needed the
   information where he had been laid; so truly human, also, in the
   underlying tenderness of the personal address, and in the absorption of
   the whole Theanthropic energy on the mighty burden about to be lifted
   and lifted away. So, also, as they bade Him come and see, were the
   tears that fell from Him (dkrusen), not like the violent lamentation
   (klausen) that burst from Him at sight and prophetic view of doomed
   Jerusalem. [4866] Yet we can scarcely think that the Jews rightly
   interpreted it, when they ascribed it only to His love for Lazarus. But
   surely there was not a touch either of malevolence or of irony, only
   what we feel to be quite natural in the circumstances, when some of
   them asked it aloud: Could not this One, Which opened the eyes of the
   blind, have wrought so that [in order] this one also should not die?'
   Scarcely was it even unbelief. They had so lately witnessed in
   Jerusalem that Miracle, such as had not been heard' since the world
   began;' [4867] that it seemed difficult to understand how, seeing there
   was the will (in His affection for Lazarus), there was not the power -
   not to raise him from the dead, for that did not occur to them, but to
   prevent his dying. Was there, then, a barrier in death? And it was
   this, and not indignation, which once more caused that Theanthropic
   recurrence upon Himself, when again He vehemently moved His Spirit.'

   And now they were at the cave which was Lazarus' tomb. He bade them
   roll aside the great stone which covered its entrance. [4868] Amidst
   the awful pause which preceded obedience, one voice only was raised. It
   was that of Martha. Jesus had not spoken of raising Lazarus. But what
   was about to be done? She could scarcely have thought that He merely
   wished to gaze once more upon the face of the dead. Something nameless
   had seized her. She dared not believe; she dared not disbelieve. Did
   she, perhaps, not dread a failure, but feel misgivings, when thinking
   of Christ as in presence of commencing corruption before these Jews -
   and yet, as we so often, still love Him even in unbelief? It was the
   common Jewish idea that corruption commenced on the fourth day, that
   the drop of gall, which had fallen from the sword of the Angel and
   caused death, was then working its effect, and that, as the face
   changed, the soul took its final leave from the resting-place of the
   body. [4869] Only one sentence Jesus spake of gentle reproof, of
   reminder of what He had said to her just before, and of the message He
   had sent when first He heard of Lazarus' illness, [4870] but, oh so
   full of calm majesty and consciousness of Divine strength. And now the
   stone was rolled away. We all feel that the fitting thing here was
   prayer - yet not petition, but thanksgiving that the Father heard' Him,
   not as regarded the raising of Lazarus, which was His Own Work, but in
   the ordering and arranging of all the circumstances - alike the
   petition and the thanksgiving having for their object them that stood
   by, for He knew that the Father always heard Him: that so they might
   believe, that the Father had sent Him. Sent of the Father - not come of
   Himself, not sent of Satan - and sent to do His Will!

   And in doing this Will, He was the Resurrection and the Life. One loud
   command spoken into that silence; one loud call to that sleeper; one
   flash of God's Own Light into that darkness, and the wheels of life
   again moved at the outgoing of The Life. And, still bound hand and foot
   with graveclothes [bands,' Takhrikhin], and his face with the napkin,
   Lazarus stood forth, shuddering and silent, in the cold light of
   earth's day. In that multitude, now more pale and shuddering than the
   man bound in the graveclothes, the Only One majestically calm was He,
   Who before had been so deeply moved and troubled Himself, as He now
   bade them Loose him, and let him go.'

   We know no more. Holy Writ in this also proves its Divine authorship
   and the reality of what is here recorded. The momentarily lifted veil
   has again fallen over the darkness of the Most Holy Place, in which is
   only the Ark of His Presence and the cloudy incense of our worship.
   What happened afterwards, how they loosed him, what they said, what
   thanks, or praise, or worship, the sisters spoke, and what were
   Lazarus' first words, we know not. And better so. Did Lazarus remember
   aught of the late past, or was not rather the rending of the grave a
   real rending from the past: the awakening so sudden, the transition so
   great, that nothing of the bright vision remained, but its impress -
   just as a marvellously beautiful Jewish legend has it, that before
   entering this world, the soul of a child has seen all of heaven and
   hell, of past, present, and future; but that, as the Angel strikes it
   on the mouth to waken it into this world, all of the other has passed
   from the mind? Again we say: We know not - and it is better so.

   And here abruptly breaks off this narrative. Some of those who had seen
   it believed on Him; others hurried back to Jerusalem to tell it to the
   Pharisees. Then was hastily gathered a meeting of the Sanhedrists,
   [4871] not to judge Him, but to deliberate what was to be done. That He
   was really doing these miracles, there could be no question among them.
   Similarly, all but one or two had no doubt as to the source of these
   miracles. If real, [4872] they were of Satanic agency - and all the
   more tremendous they were, the more certainly so. But whether really of
   Satanic power, or merely a Satanic delusion, one thing, at least, was
   evident, that, if He were let alone, all men would believe on Him? And
   then, if He headed the Messianic movement of the Jews as a nation,
   alike the Jewish City and Temple, and Israel as a nation, would perish
   in the fight with Rome. But what was to be done? They had not the
   courage of, though the wish for, judicial murder, till he who was the
   High-Priest, Caiaphas, reminded them of the well-known Jewish adage,
   that it is better one man should die, than the community perish.'
   [4873] Yet, even so, he who spoke was the High-Priest; and for the last
   time, ere in speaking the sentence he spoke it for ever as against
   himself and the office he held, spake through him God's Voice, not as
   regards the counsel of murder, but this, that His Death should be for
   that nation' - nay, as St. John adds, not only for Israel, but to
   gather into one fold all the now scattered children of God.

   This was the last prophecy in Israel; with the sentence of death on
   Israel's true High-Priest died prophecy in Israel, died Israel's
   High-Priesthood. It had spoken sentence upon itself.

   This was the first Friday of dark resolve. Henceforth it only needed to
   concert plans for carrying it out. Some one, perhaps Nicodemus, sent
   word of the secret meeting and resolution of the Sanhedrists. That
   Friday and the next Sabbath Jesus rested in Bethany, with the same
   majestic calm which He had shown at the grave of Lazarus. Then He
   withdrew, far away to the obscure bounds of Peræa and Galilee, to a
   city of which the very location is now unknown. [4874] And there He
   continued with His disciples, withdrawn from the Jews - till He would
   make His final entrance into Jerusalem.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [4775] As quoted by Godet (ad loc.).

   [4776] See vol. i., p. 559.

   [4777] In the earlier editions of his Vie de Jésus.

   [4778] St. Luke x. 38 &c.; St. Matt. xxvi. 6 &c. St. Mark xiv. 3.

   [4779] St. John xi. 2.

   [4780] St. John xi. 45.

   [4781] I do not quite understand, whether or not Dr. Abbott (Encycl.
   Brit., Art. Gospels,' pp. 837, 838) holds the historical accuracy' of
   this narrative. In a foot-note he disclaims its complete discussion' as
   foreign to the purpose of his essay. He refers us, however, to the
   Parable of Dives and Lazarus, together with the comments on it of
   Lightfoot in his Horæ Hebr., and of Wünsche in his Beitr. z. Erl. d.
   Evangelien. I have carefully examined both, but cannot see that either
   or both contribute anything to help our understanding of the raising of
   Lazarus.

   [4782] St. Luke x. 38 &c.

   [4783] From the non-mention of Peter and the prominence of Thomas it
   seems at least doubtful, whether all the Apostles were there.

   [4784] According to the best reading, the words are the same, but the
   position of the personal pronoun mou my' brother is significantly
   different (see Westcott ad loc.).

   [4785] As to the Jewish usus of the expression sleep' for death, see
   Book III. chap. xxvi.

   [4786] Ber. 57 b.

   [4787] Ber. R 20.

   [4788] See chap. v. of this Book.

   [4789] Comp. St. John xi. 20.

   [4790] In that case Christ's inquiry would afford another instance of
   His self-exinanition in His great Humiliation of becoming obedient.'

   [4791] Moed K. 28 a; comp Sanh. 46 b.

   [4792] When relating the history of the raising of the widow's son at
   Nain, Book III. chap. xx.

   [4793] An interesting account (to which I would acknowledge
   obligations) is given in a brochure by Dr. Perles, reprinted from
   Frankel's Monatsschrift.

   [4794] Shabb. 153 a; comp. also as regards Jerusalem (where the
   Galilean custom prevailed), Semach. iii. 6.

   [4795] Baba B. 25 a.

   [4796] Comp. Perles, u. s. p. 25.

   [4797] 2 Kings xxiii. 6; Jer. Xxvi. 23.

   [4798] St. Matt. xxvii. 7; Acts i. 19.

   [4799] Sanh. vi. 5.

   [4800] These were: a law court, provision for the poor, a synagogue, a
   public bath, a secessus, a doctor, a surgeon, a scribe, a butcher, and
   a schoolmaster.

   [4801] Targ. on Ps. cxv. 17.

   [4802] Moed K. 9 b.

   [4803] Erub. iii.1; Tohar. iii. 7.

   [4804] Sanh. 46.

   [4805] Keth. 20 b.

   [4806] Gitt. 61 a.

   [4807] Sanh. 47 a.

   [4808] u. s. 46 a.

   [4809] Ber. 8 a.

   [4810] Semach. 2.

   [4811] Semach. i. 6.

   [4812] Moed K. 27 b.

   [4813] u.s. 28 b, where also the text their laments.

   [4814] Jer. Moed K. i. 5.

   [4815] Baba B. 100 b.

   [4816] Meg. 28 a, b.

   [4817] Shabb. 153 a.

   [4818] Many of them in Moed K. 25.

   [4819] See Zunz, Zur Gesch. u. Liter. pp. 304 to 458. In Moed K. 25 b
   we have the miraculous portents at the death of great Rabbis: columns
   weeping or statues flattening or bursting, blood flowing, stars
   appearing, trees uprooted, arches bending, &c.

   [4820] Nicolai (De Sepulchr. Hebr., a book of no great value) gives a
   pictorial illustration at p. 170.

   [4821] Baba B. 100 b.

   [4822] Ber. 53 a.

   [4823] Bets. 6 a.

   [4824] Meg. 26 b.

   [4825] Mearta. Babha Mets. 85 b; Baba B. 58 a.

   [4826] Not Kokim. On the difference, as regards the entrance into these
   caves, between Jewish and Phoenician tombs, see Conder, Heth and Moab,'
   p. 93.

   [4827] Baba B. vi. 8.

   [4828] This partly depends whether, with Rashi and Perles (p. 29), we
   regard {hebrew} as an ossarium, or, with Levy, regard it as = {hebrew},
   house of mourning,' Ber. 6 b (comp. Schwab ad loc.).

   [4829] Jer. Moed K. i. 5; Semach. 12 and 13.

   [4830] Comp. letters, (a) by Dr. Chaplin, Quart. Stat. Oct. 1873, p.
   155; (b) by M. Clermont-Ganneau, Ap. 1874, pp. 95, &c.; (c) Dr.
   Chaplin, Quart. Stat. Jan. 1876, p. 9; (d) Art. by Capt. Conder ib. pp.
   18, &c.

   [4831] See, especially, Capt. Wilson's Report in the third Quart. Stat.
   (1869), pp. 66, &c.

   [4832] Recovery of Jerusalem, p. 494.

   [4833] M. Clermont-Ganneau.

   [4834] The supposed ancient (pre-Christian, Israelitish) inscriptions
   in the Crimea are now generally ascribed to a much later date. Comp.
   Harkavy, Altjud. Denkm.

   [4835] See Schürer, Gemeinde Verf. d. Juden in Rom. Schürer has
   collected forty-five of the most interesting of these inscriptions.

   [4836] Horay. 13 b.

   [4837] This is expressly stated in Moed. K. 8 b, lines 7-9.

   [4838] On account of the poverty of some of the sages, it was declared
   that they needed not monuments; their deeds were their monuments (Jer.
   Shequal. ii. 7, p. 47 a).

   [4839] 1 Macc. xiii. 27-29.

   [4840] Ant. xvi. 7.1.

   [4841] The first gives an exaggerated account of the great monument
   erected by Simon Maccabeus in honour of his father and brothers; the
   second refers to a monument erected by Herod over the tomb of David.

   [4842] On the use of the word Nephesh as meaning not only soul' and
   person,' but as applied also to the , the reader will find some very
   interesting remarks in the App. Not. Miscell. to Pocock's Porta Mosis,
   pp. 19, 20, and 75-78, and in Pagnini, Thes. Ling. Sanct. col. 1658,
   &c.

   [4843] Erub. v.1; Sheq. ii. 5.

   [4844] Ezek. xliii. 7. Probably the second clause of Is. liii. 9 should
   read thus: And with the rich His sepulchre.'

   [4845] {hebrew}.

   [4846] Moed K. i. 2.

   [4847] St. Matt. xxiii. 27 Moed K. 6 a.

   [4848] On the subject of mourning' I must refer generally to the
   corresponding chapter in Sketches of Jewish Social Life.'

   [4849] Moed K. 29 a.

   [4850] Baba B. 100 b.

   [4851] Jer. Kidd. i. 8.

   [4852] Ab. d. R. Nath. 25.

   [4853] Jer. Yebam. 4 d.

   [4854] Siphré, towards end.

   [4855] Ber. R. 49.

   [4856] Shabb. 152 b.

   [4857] Ber. 18 b; 19 a; comp. Heb. xii. 1.

   [4858] Yoma 38 b; Taan. 28 a.

   [4859] Kethub. 8 b.

   [4860] This is not only the literal rendering, but the parallelism of
   the previous member of the sentence (even if he die, shall live') -
   where the life' is neither the spiritual nor the eternal, but life in
   opposition to physical death - seems to demand this, rather than the
   rendering of both the A.V. and the R.V.

   [4861] St. John xi. 4.

   [4862] Possibly it might be: He that was to come,' or should come, like
   {hebrew} or {hebrew} in which case it would be another evidence of
   Hebraisms in the Fourth Gospel.

   [4863] Semach. 8; Taan. 16.

   [4864] For a brief but excellent summary of the principal views on the
   subject, see Westcott, ad loc.

   [4865] Canon Westcott.

   [4866] St. Luke xix. 41.

   [4867] St. John ix. 32.

   [4868] In St. John xi. 41 the words, from the place where the dead was
   laid,' should be omitted, as not in the best MSS.

   [4869] Abh. Z. 20 b; Ber. R. 100; Vayyik. R. 18.

   [4870] St. John xi 4.

   [4871] On the Sanhedrin, see further, in Book V.

   [4872] The doubt as to their reality would, of course, come from the
   Sadducees in the Sanhedrin. It will be remembered, that both Caiaphas
   and the Chief Priests belonged to that party.

   [4873] Ber. R. 94; comp. also 91, and the Midr. on Eccl. ix. 18.

   [4874] The city' called Ephraim' has not been localised. Most modern
   writers identify it with the Ephraim, or Ephron, of 2 Chron. xiii. 19,
   in the neighbourhood of Bethel, and near the wilderness of Bethaven.
   But the text seems to require a place in Peræa and close to Galilee.
   Comp. p. 127.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XXII.
ON THE JOURNEY TO JERUSALEM - DEPARTURE FROM EPHRAIM BY WAY OF SAMARIA AND
GALILEE - HEALING OF TEN LEPERS - PROPHETIC DISCOURSE OF THE COMING KINGDOM - ON
DIVORCE: JEWISH VIEWS OF IT - THE BLESSING TO LITTLE CHILDREN

   (St. Matt. xix. 1, 2; St. Mark x.1; St. Luke xvii. 11; St. Luke xvii.
   12-19; St. Matt. xix. 3-12; St. Mark x. 2-12; St. Matt. xix. 13-15; St.
   Mark x. 13-16; St. Luke xviii. 15-17.)

   The brief time of rest and quiet converse with His disciples in the
   retirement of Ephraim was past, and the Saviour of men prepared for His
   last journey to Jerusalem. All the three Synoptic Gospels mark this,
   although with varying details. [4875] From the mention of Galilee by
   St. Matthew, and by St. Luke of Samaria and Galilee - or more
   correctly, between (along the frontiers of) Samaria and Galilee,' we
   may conjecture that, on leaving Ephraim, Christ made a very brief
   detour along the northern frontier to some place at the southern border
   of Galilee - perhaps to meet at a certain point those who were to
   accompany him on his final journey to Jerusalem. This suggestion, for
   it is no more, is in itself not improbable, since some of Christ's
   immediate followers might naturally wish to pay a brief visit to their
   friends in Galilee before going up to Jerusalem. And it is further
   confirmed by the notice of St. Mark, [4876] that among those who had
   followed Christ there were many women which came up with Him unto
   Jerusalem.' For, we can scarcely suppose that these many women' had
   gone with Him in the previous autumn from Galilee to the Feast of
   Tabernacles, nor that they were with Him at the Feast of the
   Dedication, or had during the winter followed Him through Peræa, nor
   yet that they had been at Bethany. [4877] All these difficulties are
   obviated if, as suggested, we suppose that Christ had passed from
   Ephraim along the border of Samaria to a place in Galilee, there to
   meet such of His disciples as would go up with Him to Jerusalem. The
   whole company would then form one of those festive bands which
   travelled to the Paschal Feast, nor would there be anything strange or
   unusual in the appearance of such a band, in this instance under the
   leadership of Jesus.

   Another and deeply important notice, furnished by SS. Matthew and Mark,
   is, that during this journey through Peræa, great multitudes' resorted
   to, and followed Him, and that He healed' [4878] and taught them.'
   [4879] This will account for the incidents and Discourses by the way,
   and also how, from among many deeds, the Evangelists may have selected
   for record what to them seemed the most important or novel, or else
   best accorded with the plans of their respective narratives. [4880]

   Thus, to begin with, St. Luke alone relates the very first incident by
   the way, [4881] and the first Discourse. [4882] Nor is it difficult to
   understand the reason of this. To one who, like St. Matthew, had
   followed Christ in His Galilean Ministry, or, like St. Mark, had been
   the penman of St. Peter, there would be nothing so peculiar or novel in
   the healing of lepers as to introduce this on the overcrowded canvas of
   the last days. Indeed, they had both already recorded what may be
   designated as a typical healing of lepers. [4883] But St. Luke had not
   recorded such healing before; and the restoration of ten at the same
   time would seem to the beloved physician' matter, not only new in his
   narrative, but of the deepest importance. Besides, we have already
   seen, that the record of the whole of this East-Jordan Ministry is
   peculiar to St. Luke; and we can scarcely doubt that it was the result
   of personal inquiries made by the Evangelist on the spot, in order to
   supplement what might have seemed to him a gap in the Gospels of St.
   Matthew and St. Mark. This would explain his fulness of detail as
   regards incidents, and, for example, the introduction of the history of
   Zacchæus, which to St. Mark, or rather to St. Peter, but especially to
   St. Matthew (himself once a publican), might appear so like that which
   they had so often witnessed and related, as scarcely to require special
   narration. On the same ground we account for the record by St. Luke of
   Christ's Discourse predictive of the Advent of the Messianic Kingdom.
   [4884] This Discourse is evidently in its place at the beginning of
   Christ's last journey to Jerusalem. But the other two Evangelists merge
   it in the account of the fuller teaching on the same subject during the
   last days of Christ's sojourn on earth. [4885]

   It is a further confirmation of our suggestion as to the road taken by
   Jesus, that of the ten lepers whom, at the outset of His journey, He
   met when entering into a village, one was a Samaritan. It may have been
   that the district was infested with leprosy; or these lepers may, on
   tidings of Christ's approach, have hastily gathered there. It was, as
   fully explained in another place, [4886] in strict accordance with
   Jewish Law, that these lepers remained both outside the village and far
   from Him to Whom they now cried for mercy. And, without either touch or
   even command of healing, Christ bade them go and show themselves as
   healed to the priests. For this it was, as will be remembered, not
   necessary to repair to Jerusalem. Any priest might declare unclean' or
   clean' provided the applicants presented themselves singly, and not in
   company, [4887] for his inspection. [4888] And they went at Christ's
   bidding, even before they had actually experienced the healing! So
   great was their faith, and, may we not almost infer, the general belief
   throughout the district, in the power of the Master.' And as they went,
   the new life coursed in their veins. Restored health began to be felt,
   just as it ever is, not before, nor yet after believing, but in the act
   of obedience of a faith that has not yet experienced the blessing.

   But now the characteristic difference between these men appeared. Of
   the ten, equally recipients of the benefit, the nine Jews continued
   their way - presumably to the priests - while the one Samaritan in the
   number at once turned back, with a loud voice glorifying God. The whole
   event may not have occupied many minutes, and Jesus with his followers
   may still have stood on the same spot whence He bade the ten lepers go
   show themselves to the priests. He may have followed them with his
   eyes, as, but a few steps on their road of faith, health overtook them,
   and the grateful Samaritan, with voice of loud thanksgiving, hastened
   back to his Healer. No longer now did he remain afar off, but in
   humblest reverence fell on his face at the Feet of Him to Whom he gave
   thanks. This Samaritan [4889] had received more than new bodily life
   and health: he had found spiritual life and healing.

   But why did the nine Jews not return? Assuredly, they must have had
   some faith when first seeking help from Christ, and still more when
   setting out for the priests before they had experienced the healing.
   But perhaps, regarding it from our own standpoint, we may overestimate
   the faith of these men. Bearing in mind the views of the Jews at the
   time, and what constant succession of miraculous cures - without a
   single failure - had been witnessed these years, it cannot seem strange
   that lepers should apply to Jesus. Not yet perhaps did it, in the
   circumstances, involve very much greater faith to go to the priests at
   His bidding - implying, of course, that they were or would be healed.
   But it was far different to turn back and to fall down at His feet in
   lowly worship and thanksgiving. That made a man a disciple.

   Many questions here suggest themselves: Did these nine Jews separate
   from the one Samaritan when they felt healed, common misfortune having
   made them companions and brethren, while the bond was snapped so soon
   as they felt themselves free of their common sorrow? The History of the
   Church and of individual Christians furnishes, alas! not a few
   analogous instances. Or did these nine Jews, in their legalism and
   obedience to the letter, go on to the priests, forgetful that, in
   obeying the letter, they violated the spirit of Christ's command? Of
   this also there are, alas! only too many parallel cases which will
   occur to the mind. Or was it Jewish pride, which felt it had a right to
   the blessings, and attributed them, not to the mercy of Christ, but to
   God; or, rather, to their own relation as Israel to God? Or, what seems
   to us the most probable, was it simply Jewish ingratitude and neglect
   of the blessed opportunity now within their reach - a state of mind too
   characteristic of those who know not the time of their visitation' -
   and which led up to the neglect, rejection, and final loss of the
   Christ? Certain it is, that the Lord emphasised the terrible contrast
   in this between the children of the household and this stranger.'
   [4890] And here another important lesson is implied in regard to the
   miraculous in the Gospels. The history shows how little spiritual value
   or efficacy they attach to miracles, and how essentially different in
   this respect their tendency is from all legendary stories. The lesson
   conveyed in this case is, that we may expect, and even experience,
   miracles, without any real faith in the Christ; with belief, indeed, in
   His Power, but without surrender to His Rule. According to the Gospels,
   a man might either seek benefit from Christ, or else receive Christ
   through such benefit. In the one case, the benefit sought was the
   object, in the other, the means; in the one, it was the goal, in the
   other, the road to it; in the one, it gave healing, in the other,
   brought salvation; in the one, it ultimately led away from, in the
   other, it led to Christ and to discipleship. And so Christ now spake it
   to this Samaritan: Arise, go thy way; thy faith has made thee whole.'
   But to all time there are here to the Church lessons of most important
   distinction.

   2. The Discourse concerning the Coming of the Kingdom, which is
   reported by St. Luke immediately after the healing of the ten lepers,
   [4891] will be more conveniently considered in connection with the
   fuller statement of the same truths at the close of our Lord's
   Ministry. [4892] It was probably delivered a day or so after the
   healing of the lepers, and marks a farther stage in the Peræan journey
   towards Jerusalem. For, here we meet once more the Pharisees as
   questioners. [4893] This circumstance, as will presently appear, is of
   great importance, as carrying us back to the last mention of an
   interpellation by the Pharisees. [4894]

   3. This brings us to what we regard as, in point of time, the next
   Discourse of Christ on this journey, recorded both by St. Matthew, and,
   in briefer form, by St. Mark. [4895] These Evangelist place it
   immediately after their notice of the commencement of this journey.
   [4896] For reasons previously indicated, St. Luke inserts the healing
   of the lepers and the prophetic Discourse, while the other two
   Evangelists omit them. On the other hand, St. Luke omits the Discourse
   here reported by St. Matthew and St. Mark, because, as we can readily
   see, its subject-matter would, from the standpoint of his Gospel, not
   appear of such supreme importance as to demand insertion in a narrative
   of selected events.

   The subject-matter of that Discourse is, in answer to Pharisaic
   tempting,' and exposition of Christ's teaching in regard to the Jewish
   law and practice of divorce. The introduction of this subject in the
   narratives of St. Matthew and St. Mark seems, to say the least, abrupt.
   But the difficulty is entirely removed, or, rather, changed into
   undesigned evidence, when we fit it into the general history. Christ
   had advanced farther on His journey, and now once more encountered the
   hostile Pharisees. It will be remembered that He had met them before in
   the same part of the country, [4897] [4898] and answered their taunts
   and objections, among other things, by charging them with breaking in
   spirit that Law of which they professed to be the exponents and
   representatives. And this He had proved by reference to their views and
   teaching on the subject of divorce. [4899] This seems to have rankled
   in their minds. Probably they also imagined, it would be easy to show
   on this point a marked difference between the teaching of Jesus and
   that of Moses and the Rabbis, and to enlist popular feeling against
   Him. Accordingly, when these Pharisees again encountered Jesus, now on
   his journey to Judæa, they resumed the subject precisely where it had
   been broken off when they had last met Him, only now with the object of
   tempting Him.' Perhaps it may also have been in the hope that, by
   getting Christ to commit Himself against divorce in Peræa - the
   territory of Herod - they might enlist against Him, as formerly against
   the Baptist, the implacable hatred of Herodias. [4900]

   But their main object evidently was to involve Christ in controversy
   with some of the Rabbinic Schools. This appears from the form in which
   they put the question, whether it was lawful to put away a wife for
   every cause?' [4901] St. Mark, who gives only a very condensed account,
   omits this clause; but in Jewish circles the whole controversy between
   different teachers turned upon this point. All held that divorce was
   lawful, the only question being as to its grounds. We will not here
   enter on the unsavoury question of Divorce' among the Jews, [4902] to
   which the Talmud devotes a special tractate. [4903] There can, however,
   be no question that the practice was discouraged by many of the better
   Rabbis, alike in word [4904] and by their example; [4905] nor yet, that
   the Jewish Law took the most watchful care of the interests of the
   woman. In fact, if any doubt were raised as to the legal validity of
   the letter of divorce, the Law always pronounced against the divorce.
   At the same time, in popular practice, divorce must have been very
   frequent; while the principles underlying Jewish legislation on the
   subject are most objectionable. [4906] These were in turn due to a
   comparatively lower estimate of woman, and to an unspiritual view of
   the marriage-relation. Christianity has first raised woman to her
   proper position, not by giving her a new one, but by restoring and
   fully developing that assigned to her in the Old Testament. Similarly,
   as regards marriage, the New Testament - which would have us to be, in
   one sense, eunuchs for the Kingdom of God,' has also fully restored and
   finally developed what the Old Testament had already implied. And this
   is part of the lesson taught in this Discourse, both to the Pharisees
   and to the disciples.

   To begin with, divorce (in the legal sense) was regarded as a privilege
   accorded only to Israel, not to the Gentiles. [4907] [4908] On the
   question: what constituted lawful grounds of divorce, the Schools were
   divided. Taking their departure from the sole ground of divorce
   mentioned in Deut. xxiv. 1: a matter of shame [literally, nakedness],'
   the School of Shammai applied the expression only to moral
   transgressions, [4909] and, indeed, exclusively to unchastity. [4910]
   It was declared that, if a woman were as mischievous as the wife of
   Ahab, or [according to tradition] as the wife of Korah, it were well
   that her husband should not divorce her, except it be on the ground of
   adultery. [4911] At the same time this must not be regarded as a fixed
   legal principle, but rather as an opinion and good counsel for conduct.
   The very passages, from which the above quotations are made, also
   afford only too painful evidence of the laxity of views and practices
   current. And the Jewish Law unquestionably allowed divorce on almost
   any grounds; the difference being, not as to what was lawful, but on
   what grounds a man should set the Law in motion, and make use of the
   absolute liberty which it accorded him. Hence, it is a serious mistake
   on the part of Commentators to set the teaching of Christ on this
   subject by the side of that of Shammai.

   But the School of Hillel proceeded on different principles. It took the
   words, matter of shame' in the widest possible sense, and declared it
   sufficient ground for divorce if a woman had spoiled her husband's
   dinner. [4912] [4913] Rabbi Akiba thought, that the words, [4914] if
   she find no favour in his eyes,' implied that it was sufficient if a
   man had found another woman more attractive than his wife. All agreed
   that moral blame made divorce a duty, [4915] and that in such cases a
   woman should not be taken back. [4916] According to the Mishnah, [4917]
   if they transgressed against the Law of Moses or of Israel. The former
   is explained as implying a breach of the laws of tithing, of setting
   apart the first of the dough, and of purification. The latter is
   explained as referring to such offences as that of going in public with
   uncovered head, of spinning in the public streets, or entering into
   talk with men, to which others add, that of brawling, or of
   disrespectfullyspeaking of her husband's parents in his presence. A
   troublesome, [4918] or quarrelsome wife might certainly be sent away;
   [4919] and ill repute, or childlessness (during ten years) were also
   regarded as valid grounds of divorce. [4920]

   Incomparably as these principles differ from the teaching of Christ, it
   must again be repeated, that no real comparison is possible between
   Christ and even the strictest of the Rabbis, since none of them
   actually prohibited divorce, except in case of adultery, nor yet laid
   down those high eternal principles which Jesus enunciated. But we can
   understand how, from the Jewish point of view, tempting Him,' they
   would put the question, whether it was lawful to divorce a wife for
   every cause.' [4921] Avoiding their cavils, the Lord appealed straight
   to the highest authority - God's institution of marriage. He, Who at
   the beginning [4922] [from the first, originally, {hebrew}] [4923]
   had made them male and female, had in the marriage-relation joined them
   together,' to the breaking of every other, even the nearest,
   relationship, to be one flesh' - that is, to a union which was unity.
   Such was the fact of God's ordering. It followed, that they were one -
   and what God had willed to be one, man might not put asunder. Then
   followed the natural Rabbinic objection, why, in such case, Moses had
   commanded a bill of divorcement. Our Lord replied by pointing out that
   Moses had not commanded divorce, only tolerated it on account of their
   hardness of heart, and in such case commanded to give a bill of divorce
   for the protection of the wife. And this argument would appeal the more
   forcibly to them, that the Rabbis themselves taught that a somewhat
   similar concession had been made [4924] by Moses in regard to female
   captives of war, as the Talmud has it, on account of the evil impulse.'
   [4925] But such a separation, our Lord continued, had not been provided
   for in the original institution, which was a union to unity. Only one
   thing could put an end to that unity - its absolute breach. Hence, to
   divorce one's wife (or husband) while this unity lasted, and to marry
   another, was adultery, because, as the divorce was null before God, the
   original marriage still subsisted - and, in that case, the Rabbinic Law
   would also have forbidden it. The next part of the Lord's inference,
   that whoso marrieth her which is put away doth commit adultery,' is
   more difficult of interpretation. Generally, it is understood as
   implying that a woman divorced for adultery might not be married. But
   it has been argued, [4926] that, as the literal rendering is, whoso
   marrieth her when put away,' it applies to the woman whose divorce had
   just before been prohibited, and not, as is sometimes thought, to a
   woman divorced [under any circumstances].' Be this as it may, the
   Jewish Law, which regarded marriage with a woman divorced under any
   circumstances as unadvisable, [4927] absolutely forbade that of the
   adulterer with the adulteress. [4928]

   Whatever, therefore, may be pleaded, on account of the hardness of
   heart' in modern society, in favour of the lawfulness of relaxing
   Christ's law of divorce, which confines dissolution of marriage to the
   one ground (of adultery), because then the unity of God's making has
   been broken by sin - such a retrocession was at least not in the mind
   of Christ, nor can it be considered lawful, either by the Church or for
   individual disciples. But, that the Pharisees had rightly judged, when
   tempting Him,' what the popular feeling on the subject would be,
   appears even from what His disciples' [not necessarily the Apostles]
   afterwards said to Him. They waited to express their dissent till they
   were alone with Him in the house,' [4929] and then urged that, if it
   were as Christ had taught, it would be better not to marry at all. To
   which the Lord replied, [4930] that this saying' of the disciples,
   [4931] it is not good to marry,' could not be received by all men, but
   only by those to whom it was given.' For, there were three cases in
   which abstinence from marriage might lawfully be contemplated. In two
   of these it was, of course, natural; and, where it was not so, a man
   might, for the Kingdom of Heaven's sake' - that is, in the service of
   God and of Christ - have all his thoughts, feelings, and impulses so
   engaged that others were no longer existent. For, we must here beware
   of a twofold misunderstanding. It is not bare abstinence from marriage,
   together, perhaps, with what the German Reformers called immunda
   continentia (unchaste continency), which is here commended, but such
   inward preoccupation with the Kingdom of God as would remove all other
   thoughts and desires. [4932] It is this which requires to be given' of
   God; and which he that is able to receive it' - who has the moral
   capacity for it - is called upon to receive. Again, it must not be
   imagined that this involves any command of celibacy: it only speaks of
   such who in the active service of the Kingdom feel, that their every
   thought is so engrossed in the work, that wishes and impulses to
   marriage are no longer existent in them. [4933] [4934]

   4. The next incident is recorded by the three Evangelists. [4935] It
   probably occurred in the same house where the disciples had questioned
   Christ about His teaching on the Divinely sacred relationship of
   marriage. And the account of His blessing of infants' and little
   children' most aptly follows on the former teaching. It is a scene of
   unspeakable sweetness and tenderness, where all is in character - alas!
   even the conduct of the disciples' as we remember their late inability
   to sympathise with the teaching of the Master. And it is all so utterly
   unlike what Jewish legend would have invented for its Messiah. We can
   understand how, when One Who so spake and wrought, rested in the house,
   Jewish mothers should have brought their little children,' and some
   their infants,' to Him, that He might touch,' put His Hands on them,
   and pray.' What power and holiness must these mothers have believed to
   be in His touch and prayer; what life to be in, and to come from Him;
   and what gentleness and tenderness must His have been, when they dared
   so to bring these little ones! For, how utterly contrary it was to all
   Jewish notions, and how incompatible with the supposed dignity of a
   Rabbi, appears from the rebuke of the disciples. It was an occasion and
   an act when, as the fuller and more pictorial account of St. Mark
   inform us, Jesus was much displeased' - the only time this strong word
   is used of our Lord [4936] - and said unto them: Suffer the little
   children to come to Me, [4937] hinder them not, for of such is the
   Kingdom of God.' Then He gently reminded His own disciples of their
   grave error, by repeating what they had apparently forgotten, [4938]
   that, in order to enter the Kingdom of God, it must be received as by a
   little child - that here there could be no question of intellectual
   qualification, nor of distinction due to a great Rabbi, but only of
   humility, receptiveness, meekness, and a simple application to, and
   trust in, the Christ. And so He folded these little ones in His Arms,
   put His Hands upon them, and blessed them, [4939] and thus for ever
   consecrated that child-life, which a parent's love and faith brought to
   Him; blessed it also by the laying-on of His Hands - as it were,
   ordained it,' as we fully believe to all time, strength because of His
   enemies.'
     __________________________________________________________________

   [4875] St. Matt. xix. 1, 2; St. Mark x. 1; St. Luke xvii. 11.

   [4876] St. Mark xv. 40, 41.

   [4877] Indeed, any lengthened journeying, and for an indefinite
   purpose, would have been quite contrary to Jewish manners. Not so, of
   course, the travelling in the festive band up to the Paschal Feast.

   [4878] St. Matthew.

   [4879] St. Mark.

   [4880] This will more fully appear when we study the history of
   Zacchæus and the cure of the blind man in Jericho.

   [4881] St. Luke xvii. 12-19.

   [4882] vv. 20-37.

   [4883] St. Matt. viii. 2-4; St. Mark i. 40-45.

   [4884] St. Luke xvii. 20-37.

   [4885] St. Matt. xxiv.; St. Mark xiii.

   [4886] See Book III. chap. xv.

   [4887] As we note, in St. Luke xvii. 14, the direction to show
   themselves to the priests' (in the plural), this forms another point of
   undesigned evidence of the authenticity of the narrative.

   [4888] Neg. iii. 1.

   [4889] Some have seen in the reference by St. Luke here, and in the
   Parable of the Good Samaritan, a peculiarly Pauline trait. But we
   remember St. John's reference to the Samaritans (iv.), and such
   sentiments in regard to the Gentiles as St. Matt. viii. 11, 12.

   [4890] The equivalent for this would be {hebrew}. This, as may be shown
   from very many passages, means not so much a stranger as a non-Jew.
   Thus, the expression Nokhri and Yisrael are constantly contrasted as
   non-Jews and Jews. At the same time it must be admitted that in Demai
   iii. 4, the Nokhri is also distinguished from the Cuthean, or
   Samaritan. But see the explanatory note of Maimonides referred to by
   Surenhusius vol. i. p. 87.

   [4891] St. Luke xvii. 20-37.

   [4892] St. Matt. xxiv.

   [4893] St. Luke xvii. 20.

   [4894] in St. Luke xvi. 14.

   [4895] St. Matt. xix. 3-12; St. Mark x. 2-12.

   [4896] St. Matt. xix. 1, 2; St. Mark x. 1.

   [4897] St. Luke xvi. 14.

   [4898] See chap. xviii. of this Book.

   [4899] St. Luke xvi. 17, 18.

   [4900] So, according to many commentators. See Meyer, ad loc.

   [4901] St. Matt xix. 3.

   [4902] On the general subject I would refer to Sketches of Jewish
   Social Life,' pp. 142, 157, 158.

   [4903] Gittin.

   [4904] Thus, the Talmudic tractate on Divorce,' while insisting on its
   duty in case of sin, closes with the words: He who divorces his first
   wife, the very altar sheds tears over him' (Gitt. 90 b, last lines;
   comp. Mal. ii. 13-16.)

   [4905] An instance of refusing to be divorced, even from a very
   disagreeable and quarrelsome wife, is that of R. Chiya, mentioned in
   Yebam. 63 a, towards end.

   [4906] Two disgusting instances of Rabbis making proclamation of their
   wish to be married for a day (in a strange place, and then divorced),
   are mentioned in Yoma 18 b.

   [4907] Jer. Kidd. 58 c; Ber.R. 18.

   [4908] This by a very profane application to this point of the
   expression God of Israel,' in Mal. ii. 16.

   [4909] Gitt. ix.  10.

   [4910] Bemidb. R. 9, ed. Warsh. p. 29 b, about the middle.

   [4911] Gitt. 90 a; Sanh. 22 a and b.

   [4912] Gitt. 90 a.

   [4913] An extraordinary attempt has been made to explain the expression
   ({hebrew}, burns his mess') as meaning brings dishonour upon him.' But
   (1) in the two passages quoted as bearing out this meaning (Ber. 17 b,
   Sanh. 103 a, second line from bottom), the expression is not the
   precise equivalent for bringing dishonour,' while in both cases the
   addition of the words in public' ({hebrew}) marks its figurative use.
   The real meaning of the expression in the two passages referred to is:
   One who brings into disrepute (destroys) that which has been taught and
   learned. But (2) in Gitt. ix. 10; 90 a; Bemidb. R. 9 there is no
   indication of any figurative use of the expression, and the
   commentators explain it, as burning the dish, either by fire or by
   salt;' while (3), the expression is followed by an anti-climax giving
   permission of divorce if another woman more pleasing were found.

   [4914] Deut. xxiv. 1.

   [4915] Yebam. 63 b; Gitt. 90 a, b.

   [4916] Gitt. iv. 7.

   [4917] Keth. vii. 6.

   [4918] Erub. 41 b.

   [4919] Yebam. 63 b.

   [4920] Gitt. iv. 7, 8.

   [4921] These words are omitted by St. Mark in his condensed account.
   But so far from regarding, with Meyer, the briefer account of St. Mark
   as the original one, we look on that of St. Matthew as more fully
   reproducing what had taken place.

   [4922] The clause, St. Matt. xix. 4, should, I think, be thus pointed:
   He Who made them, at the beginning made them, &c.'

   [4923] Used in the same sense, for example, Baba B. 8 b.

   [4924] Deut. xxi. 11.

   [4925] Kidd. 21 b.

   [4926] Canon Cook argues this with great ingenuity.

   [4927] Pes. 112 a.

   [4928] Sot. v. 1.

   [4929] St. Mark x. 10.

   [4930] St. Matt. xix. 10-12.

   [4931] This is the view commonly taken. But the saying' may, without
   much difficulty, be also applied to that of Christ.

   [4932] For, it is not merely to practise outward continence, but to
   become in mind and heart a eunuch.

   [4933] Comp. 1 Cor. vii. 1, 25-40.

   [4934] The mistaken literalism of application on the part of Origen is
   well known. Such practice must have been not unfrequent among Jewish
   Christians, for, curiously enough, the Talmud refers to it, reporting a
   conversation between a Rabbi and such a Jewish Christian eunuch
   ({hebrew}), Shabb. 152 a. The same story is related, with slight
   alterations, in the Midrash on Eccles. x. 7, ed. Warsh. p. 102 a, last
   four lines. Any practice of this kind would have been quite contrary to
   Jewish law (Pes. 112 b; Shabb. 110 b).

   [4935] St. Matt. xix. 13-15 St. Mark x. 13-16; St. Luke xviii. 15-17.

   [4936] The other places in which the verb occurs are: St. Matt. xx. 24;
   xxi. 15; ? xxvi. 8; St. Mark x. 41; xiv. 4; St. Luke xiii. 14; the
   substantive in 2 Cor. vii. 11.

   [4937] The and' before hinder' should be omitted according to the best
   MSS.

   [4938] St. Matt. xviii. 3.

   [4939] As Mr. Brown McClellan notes, in his learned work on the New
   Testament, the word is an intensitive compound form of blessing,
   especially of dearest friends and relations at meeting and parting.'
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XXIII.
THE LAST INCIDENTS IN PERÆA - THE YOUNG RULER WHO WENT AWAY SORROWFUL - TO LEAVE
ALL FOR CHRIST - PROPHECY OF HIS PASSION - THE REQUEST OF SALOME, AND OF JAMES
AND JOHN.

   (St. Matt. xix. 16-22; St. Mark x. 17-22; St. Luke xviii. 18-23; St.
   Matt. xix. 23-30; St. Mark x. 23-31; St. Luke xviii. 24-30; St. Matt.
   xx. 17-19; St. Mark x. 32-34: St. Luke xviii. 31-34; St. Matt. xx.
   20-28; St. Mark x. 35-45.)

   As we near the goal, the wondrous story seems to grow in tenderness and
   pathos. It is as if all the loving condescension of the Master were to
   be crowded into these days; all the pressing need also, and the human
   weaknesses of His disciples. And with equal compassion does He look
   upon the difficulties of them who truly seek to come to Him, and on
   those which, springing from without, or even from self and sin, beset
   them who have already come. Let us try reverently to follow His steps,
   and learn of His words.

   As He was going forth into the way' [4940] - we owe this trait, as one
   and another in the same narrative, to St. Mark - probably at early
   morn, as He left the house where He had for ever folded into His Arms
   and blessed the children brought to Him by believing parents - His
   progress was arrested. It was a young man,' a ruler,' [4941] probably
   of the local Synagogue, [4942] who came with all haste, running,' and
   with lowliest gesture [kneeling], [4943] to ask what to him, nay to us
   all, is the most important question. Remembering that, while we owe to
   St. Mark the most graphic touches, [4944] St. Matthew most fully
   reports the words that had been spoken, we might feel inclined to adopt
   that reading of them in St. Matthew [4945] which is not only most
   strongly supported, but at first sight seems to remove some of the
   difficulties of exposition. This reading would omit in the address of
   the young ruler the word good' before Master, what good thing shall I
   do that I may inherit eternal life?' and would make Christ's reply
   read: Why askest thou Me concerning the good [that which is good]? One
   there is Who is good.' This would meet not only the objection, that in
   no recorded instance was a Jewish Rabbi addressed as Good Master,' but
   the obvious difficulties connected with the answer of Christ, according
   to the common reading: Why callest thou Me good? none is good, save
   only One: God.' But on the other side it must be urged, that the
   undoubted reading of the question and answer in St. Mark's and St.
   Luke's Gospels agrees with that of our Authorised Version, and hence
   that any difficulty of exposition would not be removed, only shifted,
   while the reply of Christ tallies far better with the words Good
   Master,' the strangeness of such an address from Jewish lips giving
   only the more reason for taking it up in the reply: Why callest thou Me
   good? none is good save only One: God.' Lastly, the designation of God
   as the only One good' agrees with one of the titles given Him in Jewish
   writings: The Good One of the world' ({hebrew}). [4946] [4947]

   The actual question of the young Ruler is one which repeatedly occurs
   in Jewish writings, as put to a Rabbi by his disciples. Amidst the
   different answers given, we scarcely wonder that they also pointed to
   observance of the Law. And the saying of Christ seems the more adapted
   to the young Ruler when we recall this sentence from the Talmud: There
   is nothing else that is good but the Law.' [4948] But here again the
   similarity is only of form, not of substance. For, it will be noticed,
   that, in the more full account by St. Matthew, Christ leads the young
   Ruler upwards through the table of the prohibitions of deeds to the
   first positive command of deed, and then, by a rapid transition, to the
   substitution for the tenth commandment in its negative form of this
   wider positive and all-embracing command: [4949] Thou shalt love thy
   neighbour as thyself.' Any Jewish Ruler,' but especially one so
   earnest, would have at once answered a challenge on the first four
   commandments by Yes' - and that not self-righteously, but sincerely,
   though of course in ignorance of their real depth. And this was not the
   time for lengthened discussion and instruction; only for rapid
   awakening, to lead up, if possible, from earnestness and a
   heart-drawing towards the master to real discipleship. Best here to
   start from what was admitted as binding - the ten commandments - and to
   lead from that in them which was least likely to be broken, step by
   step, upwards to that which was most likely to awaken consciousness of
   sin.

   And the young Ruler did not, as that other Pharisee, reply by trying to
   raise a Rabbinic disputation over the Who is neighbour to me?' [4950]
   but in the sincerity of an honest heart answered that he had kept -
   that is, so far as he knew them - all these things from his youth.'
   [4951] On this St. Matthew puts into his mouth the question - What lack
   I yet?' Even if, like the other two Evangelists, he had not reported
   it, we would have supplied this from what follows. There is something
   intensely earnest, genuine, generous, even enthusiastic, in the higher
   cravings of the soul in youth, when that youth has not been poisoned by
   the breath of the world, or stricken with the rottenness of vice. The
   soul longs for the true, the higher, the better, and, even if strength
   fails of attainment, we still watch with keen sympathy the form of the
   climber upwards. Much more must all this have been the case with a
   Jewish youth, especially in those days; one, besides, like this young
   Ruler, in whose case affluence of circumstances not only allowed free
   play, but tended to draw out and to give full scope to the finer
   feelings, and where wealth was joined with religiousness and the
   service of a Synagogue. There was not in him that pride of riches, nor
   the self-sufficiency which they so often engender; nor the pride of
   conscious moral purity and aim after righteousness before God and man;
   nor yet the pride of the Pharisee or of the Synagogue-Ruler. What he
   had seen and heard of the Christ had quickened to greatest intensity
   all in him that longed after God and heaven, and had brought him in
   this supreme moral earnestness, lowly, reverently, to the Feet of Him
   in Whom, as he felt, all perfectness was, and from Whom all perfectness
   came. He had not been first drawn to Christ, and thence to the pure, as
   were the publicans and sinners; but, like so many - even as Peter, when
   in that hour of soul-agony he said: To whom shall we go? Thou hast the
   words of eternal life,' - he had been drawn to the pure and the higher,
   and therefore to Christ. To some the way to Christ is up the Mount of
   Transfiguration, among the shining Beings of another world; to some it
   is across dark Kedron, down the deep Garden of Gethsemane with its
   agonies. What matters it, if it equally lead to Him, and equally bring
   the sense of need and experience of pardon to the seeker after the
   better, and the sense of need and experience of holiness to the seeker
   after pardon?

   And Jesus saw it all: down, through that intense upward look; inwards,
   through that question, What lack I yet?' far deeper down than that
   young man had ever seen into his own heart - even into depths of
   weakness and need which he had never sounded, and which must be filled,
   if he would enter the Kingdom of Heaven. Jesus saw what he lacked; and
   what He saw, He showed him. For, looking at him' in his sincerity and
   earnestness, He loved him' - as He loves those that are His Own. One
   thing was needful for this young man: that he should not only become
   His disciple, but that, in so doing, he should come and follow' Christ.
   We can all perceive how, for one like this young man, such absolute and
   entire coming and following Christ was needful. And again, to do this,
   it was in the then circumstances both of this young man and of Christ
   necessary, that he should go and part with all that he had. And what
   was an outward, was also, as we perceive it, an inward necessity; and
   so, as ever, Providence and Grace would work together. For, indeed, to
   many of us some outward step is often not merely the means of but
   absolutely needful for, spiritual decision. To some it is the first
   open profession of Christ; to others, the first act of self-denial, or
   the first distinct No'-saying; to some, it may be, it is the first
   prayer, or else the first act of self-consecration. Yet it seems, as if
   it needed not only the word of God but a stroke of some Moses'-rod to
   make the water gush forth from the rock. And thus would this young
   Ruler have been perfect;' and what he had given to the poor have
   become, not through merit nor by way of reward, but really treasure in
   heaven.' [4952]

   What he lacked - was earth's poverty and heaven's riches; a heart fully
   set on following Christ: and this could only come to him through
   willing surrender of all. And so this was to him alike the means, the
   test, and the need. To him it was this; to us it may be something quite
   other. Yet each of us has a lack - something quite deep down in our
   hearts, which we may never yet have known, and which we must know and
   give up, if we would follow Christ. And without forsaking, there can be
   no following. This is the law of the Kingdom - and it is such, because
   we are sinners, because sin is not only the loss of the good, but the
   possession of something else in its place.

   There is something deeply pathetic in the mode in which St. Mark
   describes it: he was sad' - the word painting a dark gloom that
   overshadowed the face of the young man. [4953] Did he then not lack it,
   this one thing? We need scarcely here recall the almost extravagant
   language in which Rabbinism describes the miseries of poverty; [4954]
   we can understand his feelings without that. Such a possibility had
   never entered his mind: the thought of it was terribly startling. That
   he must come and follow Christ, then and there, and in order to do so,
   sell all that he had and give it away among the poor, and be poor
   himself, a beggar, that he might have treasure in heaven; and that this
   should come to him as the one thing needful from that Master in Whom he
   believed, from Whose lips he would learn the one thing needful, and who
   but a little before had been to him the All in All! It was a terrible
   surprise, a sentence of death to his life, and of life to his death.
   And that it should come from His lips, at Whose Feet he had run to
   kneel, and Who held for him the keys of eternal life! Rabbinism had
   never asked this; if it demanded almsgiving, it was in odious
   boastfulness; [4955] while it was declared even unlawful to give away
   all one's possessions [4956] - at most, only a fifth of them might be
   dedicated. [4957]

   And so, with clouded face he gazed down into what he lacked - within;
   but also gazed up in Christ on what he needed. And, although we hear no
   more of him, who that day went back to his rich home very poor, because
   very sorrowful,' we cannot but believe that he, whom Jesus loved, yet
   found in the poverty of earth the treasure of heaven.

   Nor was this all. The deep pity of Christ for him, who had gone that
   day, speaks also in his warning to his disciples. [4958] But surely
   those are not only riches in the literal sense which make it so
   difficult for a man to enter into the Kingdom of Heaven [4959] - so
   difficult, as to amount almost to that impossibility which was
   expressed in the common Jewish proverb, that a man did not even in his
   dreams see an elephant pass through the eye of a needle. [4960] But
   when in their perplexity the disciples put to each other the saddened
   question: Who then can be saved? He pointed them onward, then upward,
   as well as inward, teaching them that, what was impossible of
   achievement by man in his own strength, God would work by His Almighty
   Grace.

   It almost jars on our ears, and prepares us for still stranger and
   sadder to come, when Peter, perhaps as spokesman of the rest, seems to
   remind the Lord that they had forsaken all to follow Him. St. Matthew
   records also the special question which Simon added to it: What shall
   we have therefore?' and hence his Gospel alone makes mention of the
   Lord's reply, in so far as it applied only to the Apostles. For, that
   reply really bore on two points: on the reward which all who left
   everything to follow Christ would obtain; [4961] and on the special
   acknowledgment awaiting the Apostles of Christ. [4962] In regard to the
   former we mark, that it is twofold. They who had forsaken all for His
   sake' [4963] and the Gospel's,' [4964] for the Kingdom of God's sake' -
   and these three expressions explain and supplement each other - would
   receive in this time' manifold more' of new, and better, and closer
   relationships of a spiritual kind for those which they had surrendered,
   although, as St. Mark significantly adds, to prevent all possible
   mistakes, with persecutions.' But by the side of this stands out
   unclouded and bright the promise for the world to come' of everlasting
   life.' As regarded the Apostles personally, some mystery lies on the
   special promise to them. [4965] We could quite understand, that the
   distinction of rule to be bestowed on them might have been worded in
   language taken from the expectations of the time, in order to make the
   promise intelligible to them. But, unfortunately, we have no
   explanatory information to offer. The Rabbis, indeed, speak of a
   renovation or regeneration of the world ({hebrew}) which was to take
   place after the 7,000 or else 5,000 years of the Messianic reign.
   [4966] Such a renewal of all things is not only foretold by the
   prophets, [4967] and dwelt upon in later Jewish writings, [4968] but
   frequently referred to in Rabbinic literature. [4969] [4970] But as
   regards the special rule or judgment' of the Apostles, or ambassadors
   of the Messiah, we have not, and, of course, cannot expect any parallel
   in Jewish writings. That the promise of such rule and judgment to the
   Apostles is not peculiar to what is called the Judaic Gospel of St.
   Matthew, appears from its renewal at a later period, as recorded by St.
   Luke. [4971] Lastly, that it is in accordance with Old Testament
   promise, will be seen by a reference to Dan. vii. 9, 10, 14, 27; and
   there are few references in the New Testament to the blessed
   consummation of all things in which such renewal of the world, [4972]
   and even the rule and judgment of the representatives of the Church,
   [4973] are not referred to.

   However mysterious, therefore, in their details, these things seem
   clear, and may without undue curiosity or presumption be regarded as
   the teaching of our Lord: the renewal of earth; the share in His rule
   and judgment which He will in the future give to His saints; the
   special distinction which He will bestow on His Apostles, corresponding
   to the special gifts, privileges, and rule with which He had endowed
   them on earth, and to their nearness to, and their work and sacrifices
   for Him; and, lastly, we may add, the preservation of Israel as a
   distinct, probably tribal, nation. [4974] As for the rest, as so much
   else, it is behind the veil,' and, even as we see it, better for the
   Church that the veil has not been further lifted.

   The reference to the blessed future with its rewards was followed by a
   Parable, recorded, as, with one exception, all of that series, only by
   St. Matthew. It will best be considered in connection with the last
   series of Christ's Parables. [4975] But it was accompanied by what, in
   the circumstances, was also a most needful warning. [4976] Thoughts of
   the future Messianic reign, its glory, and their own part in it might
   have so engrossed the minds of the disciples as to make them forgetful
   of the terrible present, immediately before them. In such case they
   might not only have lapsed into that most fatal Jewish error of a
   Messiah-King, Who was not Saviour, the Crown without the Cross, but
   have even suffered shipwreck of their faith, when the storm broke on
   the Day of His Condemnation and Crucifixion. If ever, it was most
   needful in that hour of elation to remind and forewarn them of what was
   to be expected in the immediate future. How truly such preparation was
   required by the disciples, appears from the narrative itself.

   There was something sadly mysterious in the words with which Christ had
   closed His Parable, that the last should be first and the first last
   [4977] [4978] - and it had carried dark misgivings to those who heard
   it. And now it seemed all so strange! Yet the disciples could not have
   indulged in illusions. His own sayings on at least two previous
   occasions, [4979] however ill or partially understood, must have led
   them to expect at any rate grievous opposition and tribulations in
   Jerusalem, and their endeavour to deter Christ from going to Bethany to
   raise Lazarus proves, that they were well aware of the danger which
   threatened the Master in Judæa. [4980] Yet not only was He now going up
   [4981] to Jerusalem,' but there was that in His bearing which was quite
   unusual. As St. Mark writes, He was going before them' - we infer,
   apart and alone, as One, busy with thoughts all engrossing, Who is
   setting Himself to do His great work, and goes to meet it. And going
   before them was Jesus; and they were amazed [utterly bewildered, viz.
   the Apostles]; and those who were following, were afraid.' [4982] It
   was then that Jesus took the Apostles apart, and in language more
   precise than ever before, told them how all things that were written by
   the prophets shall be accomplished on the Son of Man' [4983] - not
   merely, that all that had been written concerning the Son of Man should
   be accomplished, but a far deeper truth, all-comprehensive as regards
   the Old Testament: that all its true prophecy ran up into the
   sufferings of the Christ. As the three Evangelists report it, the Lord
   gave them full details of His Betrayal, Crucifixion, and Resurrection.
   And yet we may, without irreverence, doubt whether on that occasion He
   had really entered into all those particulars. In such case it would
   seem difficult to explain how, as St. Luke reports, they understood
   none of these things, and the saying was hid from them, neither knew
   they the things which were spoken;' and again, how afterwards the
   actual events and the Resurrection could have taken them so by
   surprise. Rather do we think, that the Evangelists report what Jesus
   had said in the light of after-events. He did tell them of His Betrayal
   by the leaders of Israel, and that into the hands of the Gentiles; of
   His Death and Resurrection on the third day - yet in language which
   they could, and actually did, misunderstand at the time, but which,
   when viewed in the light of what really happened, was perceived by them
   to have been actual prediction of those terrible days in Jerusalem and
   of the Resurrection-morning. At the time they may have thought that it
   pointed only to His rejection by Jews and Gentiles, to Sufferings and
   Death - and then to a Resurrection, either of His Mission or to such a
   reappearance of the Messiah, after His temporary disappearance, as
   Judaism expected.

   But all this time, and with increasing fierceness, were terrible
   thoughts contending in the breast of Judas; and beneath the tramp of
   that fight was there only a thin covering of earth, to hide and keep
   from bursting forth the hellish fire of the master-passion within.

   One other incident, more strange and sad than any that had preceded,
   and the Peræan stay is for ever ended. It almost seems, as if the
   fierce blast of temptation, the very breath of the destroyer, were
   already sweeping over the little flock, as if the twilight of the night
   of betrayal and desertion were already falling around. And now it has
   fallen on the two chosen disciples, James and John - the sons of
   thunder,' and one of them, the beloved disciple!' Peter, the third in
   that band most closely bound to Christ, had already had his fierce
   temptation, [4984] and would have it more fiercely - to the uprooting
   of life, if the Great High-Priest had not specially interceded for him.
   And, as regards these two sons of Zebedee and of Salome, [4985] we know
   what temptation had already beset them, how John had forbidden one to
   cast out devils, because he followed not with them, [4986] and how both
   he and his brother, James, would have called down fire from heaven to
   consume the Samaritans who would not receive Christ. [4987] It was
   essentially the same spirit that now prompted the request which their
   mother Salome preferred, [4988] not only with their full concurrence,
   but, as we are expressly told, [4989] with their active participation.
   There is the same faith in the Christ, the same allegiance to Him, but
   also the same unhallowed earnestness, the same misunderstanding - and,
   let us add, the same latent self-exaltation, as in the two former
   instances, in the present request that, as the most honoured of His
   guests, and also as the nearest to Him, they might have their places at
   His Right Hand and at His Left in His Kingdom. [4990] Terribly
   incongruous as is any appearance of self-seeking at that moment and
   with that prospect before them, we cannot but feel that there is also
   an intenseness of faith and absoluteness of love almost sublime, when
   the mother steps forth from among those who follow Christ to His
   Suffering and Death, to proffer such a request with her sons, and for
   them.

   And so the Saviour seems to have viewed it. With unspeakable patience
   and tenderness, He, Whose Soul is filled with the terrible contest
   before Him, bears with the weakness and selfishness which could cherish
   such thoughts and ambitions even at such a time. To correct them, He
   points to that near prospect, when the Highest is to be made low. Ye
   know not what ye ask!' The King is to be King through suffering - are
   they aware of the road which leads to that goal? Those nearest to the
   King of sorrows must reach the place nearest to Him by the same road as
   He. Are they prepared for it; prepared to drink that cup of soul-agony,
   which the Father will hand to Him - to submit to, to descend into that
   baptism of consecration, when the floods will sweep over Him? [4991] In
   their ignorance, and listening only to the promptings of their hearts,
   they imagine that they are. Nay, in some measure it would be so; yet,
   finally to correct their mistake: to sit at His Right and at His Left
   Hand, these were not marks of mere favour for Him to bestow - in His
   own words: it is not Mine to give except to them for whom it is
   prepared of My Father.'

   But as for the other ten, when they heard of it, it was only the
   pre-eminence which, in their view, James and John had sought, which
   stood out before them, to their envy, jealousy, and indignation. [4992]
   And so, in that tremendously solemn hour would the fierce fire of
   controversy have broken out among them, who should have been most
   closely united; would jealousy and ambition have filled those who
   should have been most humble, and fierce passions, born of self, the
   world and Satan, have distracted them, whom the thought of the great
   love and the great sacrifice should have filled. It was the rising of
   that storm on the sea, the noise and tossing of those angry billows,
   which He hushed into silence when He spoke to them of the grand
   contrast between the princes of the Gentiles as they lord it over
   them,' or the great among them' as they domineer' [4993] over men, and
   their own aims - how, whosoever would be great among them, must seek
   his greatness in service - not greatness through service, but the
   greatness of service; and, whosever would be chief or rather first'
   among them, let it be in service. And had it not been thus, was it not,
   would it not be so in the Son of Man - and must it not therefore be so
   in them who would be nearest to Him, even His Apostles and disciples?
   The Son of Man - let them look back, let them look forward - He came
   not to be ministered unto, but to minister. And then, breaking through
   the reserve that had held Him, and revealing to them the inmost
   thoughts which had occupied Him when He had been alone and apart, going
   before them on the way, He spoke for the first time fully what was the
   deepest meaning of His Life, Mission, and Death: to give His Life a
   ransom for many' [4994] [4995] - to pay with His Life-Blood the price
   of their redemption, to lay down His Life for them: in their room and
   stead, and for their salvation.

   These words must have sunk deep into the heart of one at least in that
   company. [4996] A few days later, and the beloved disciple tells us of
   this Ministry of His Love at the Last Supper, [4997] and ever
   afterwards, in his writings or in his life, does he seem to bear them
   about with him, and to re-echo them. Ever since also have they remained
   the foundation-truth, on which the Church has been built: the subject
   of her preaching, and the object of her experience. [4998]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [4940] This is the exact rendering.

   [4941] St. Luke.

   [4942] Dean Plumptre needlessly supposes him to have been a member of
   the Great Sanhedrin, and even identifies him with Lazarus of Bethany.

   [4943] St. Mark.

   [4944] This is well pointed out by Canon Cook on St. Mark x. 19.

   [4945] St. Matt. xix. 16.

   [4946] Pesiqta, ed. Buber, p. 161 a, last lines.

   [4947] To really remove exegetical difficulties, the reading should be
   further altered to n st t gathn as Wünsche suggests, who regards our
   present reading es stn gaths as a mistake of the translator in
   rendering the neuter of the Aramaic original by the masculine. We need
   scarcely say, the suggestion, however ingenious, is not supported. And
   then, what of the conversation in the other Gospels, where we could
   scarcely expect a variation of the saying from the more easy to the
   more difficult? On the application to God of the term the Good One,'
   see an interesting notice in the Jud Liter. Blatt, for Sept. 20, 1882,
   p. 152.

   [4948] Ber. 5 a, about middle; Ab Zar. 19 b.

   [4949] Lev. xix. 18.

   [4950] St. Luke x. 29.

   [4951] In St. Matt. xix. 20, these words should be struck out as
   spurious.

   [4952] The words take up the cross,' in the textus receptus of St. Mark
   x. 21, are spurious - the gloss of a clumsy interpolator.

   [4953] The word is only used in St. Matt. xvi. 3, of the lowering sky.

   [4954] Many sayings might here be quoted. It was worse than all the
   plagues of Egypt put together (Babha B. 116 a); than all other miseries
   (Betsah 32 b); the worst affliction that could befall a man (Shem. R.
   31).

   [4955] See a story of boastfulness in that respect in Wünsche, ad loc.
   To make a merit of giving up riches for Christ is, surely, the Satanic
   caricature of the meaning of His teaching.

   [4956] Arach. viii.4.

   [4957] Kethub. 50 a.

   [4958] St. Mark x. 23.

   [4959] The words in St. Mark x. 24, for them that trust in riches,' are
   most likely a spurious gloss.

   [4960] Ber. 55 b, last line; comp. also Babha Mets. 38 b.

   [4961] St. Matt. xix. 29; St. Mark x. 26, 30; St. Luke xviii. 29, 30.

   [4962] St. Matt. xix. 28.

   [4963] St. Matthew and St. Mark.

   [4964] St. Mark.

   [4965] Of course, the expression twelve thrones' (St. Matt. xix. 28)
   must not be pressed to utmost literality, or it might be asked whether
   St. Paul or St. Matthias occupied the place of Judas. On the other
   hand, neither must it be frittered away, as if the regeneration'
   referred only to the Christian dispensation, and to spiritual relations
   under it.

   [4966] Sanh. 97 b.

   [4967] As for example Is. xxxiv. 4; li. 6; lxv. 17

   [4968] Book of Enoch xci. 16, 17; 4 Esd. vii. 28.

   [4969] Targum Onkelos on Deut. xxxii. 12; Targ. Jon. on Habak. iii. 2;
   Ber, R. 12. ed. Warsh. p. 24 b, near end; Pirké de R. Eliez 51.

   [4970] This subject will be further treated in the sequel.

   [4971] St. Luke xxii. 30.

   [4972] Acts iii. 21; Rom. viii. 19-21; 2 Pet. iii. 13; Rev. xxi. 1.

   [4973] 1 Cor. vi. 2, 3; Rev. xx. 4; xxi. 14.

   [4974] Comp. also Acts xxvi. 7.

   [4975] See in Book V.

   [4976] St. Matt. xx. 17-19.

   [4977] St. Mat., xx. 16; St. Mark x. 31.

   [4978] The words, many be called, but few chosen,' seem spurious in
   that place.

   [4979] St. Matt. xvi. 21; xvii. 22, 23.

   [4980] St. John xi. 8, 16.

   [4981] This is the precise rendering of the verb.

   [4982] This is the precise rendering of St. Mark x. 32.

   [4983] St. Luke xviii. 31.

   [4984] St. Matt. xvi. 23.

   [4985] St. Matt. xxvii. 56; comp. St. Mark xv. 40.

   [4986] St. Mark ix. 38.

   [4987] St. Luke ix. 54.

   [4988] It is very remarkable that, in St. Matt. xx. 20, she bears the
   unusual title: the mother of Zebedee's children' (comp. also for the
   mention of Zebedee, St. Mark x. 35). This, evidently, to emphasise that
   the distinction was not asked on the ground of earthly kinship, as
   through Salome, who was the aunt of Jesus.

   [4989] by St. Mark (x. 35).

   [4990] St. Matt. xx. 20-28; St. Mark x. 35-45.

   [4991] The clause in St. Matthew: and to be baptized with the baptism
   that I am baptised with,' is probably a spurious insertion, taken from
   St. Mark's Gospel.

   [4992] St. Matt, xx. 24, &c.; St. Mark x. 41 &c.

   [4993] I have chosen these two words because the verbs in the Greek
   (which are the same in the two Gospels) express not ordinary dominion'
   and authority,' but a forcible and tyrannical exercise of it. The first
   verb occurs again in Acts xix. 16, and 1 Pet. v. 3; the second only in
   this passage in the Gospels.

   [4994] St. Matt. xx. 28; St. Mark x. 45.

   [4995] We would here call attention to some exquisitely beautiful and
   forcible remarks by Dean Plumptre on the passage.

   [4996] Comp. Dean Plumptre, u. s.

   [4997] St. John xiii.

   [4998] Rom. iii. 24: 1 Cor. vi. 20; 1 Tim. ii. 6; 1 Pet. i. 19; 1 John
   iv. 10.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XXIV.
IN JERICHO AND AT BETHANY - JERICHO - A GUEST WITH ZACCHÆUS - THE HEALING OF
BLIND BARTIMÆUS - THE PLOT AT JERUSALEM - AT BETHANY, AND IN THE HOUSE OF SIMON
THE LEPER

   (St. Luke xix. 1-10; St. Matt. xx. 29-34; St. Mark x. 46-52; St. Luke
   xviii. 35-43; St. John xi. 55-xii. 1; St. Matt. xxvi. 6-13; St. Mark
   xiv. 3-9; St. John xii. 2-11.)

   ONCE more, and now for the last time, were the fords of Jordan passed,
   and Christ was on the soil of Judæa proper. Behind Him were Peræa and
   Galilee; behind Him the Ministry of the Gospel by Word and Deed; before
   Him the final Act of His Life, towards which all had consciously
   tended. Rejected as the Messiah of His people, not only in His Person
   but as regarded the Kingdom of God, which, in fulfilment of prophecy
   and of the merciful Counsel of God, He had come to establish, He was of
   set purpose going up to Jerusalem, there to accomplish His Decease, to
   give His Life a Ransom for many.' And He was coming, not, as at the
   Feast of Tabernacles, privately, but openly, at the head of His
   Apostles, and followed by many disciples - a festive band going up to
   the Paschal Feast, of which Himself was to be the Lamb' of sacrifice.

   The first station reached was Jericho, the City of Palms,' a distance
   of only about six hours from Jerusalem. The ancient City occupied not
   the site of the present wretched hamlet, but lay about half an hour to
   the north-west of it, by the so-called Elisha-Spring. A second spring
   rose an hour further to the north-north-west. The water of these
   springs, distributed by aqueducts, gave, under a tropical sky,
   unsurpassed fertility to the rich soil along the plain' of Jericho,
   which is about twelve or fourteen miles wide. The Old Testament history
   of the City of Palms' is sufficiently known. It was here also that King
   Zedekiah had, on his flight, been seized by the Chaldeans, [4999] and
   thither a company of 345 men returned under Zerubbabel. [5000] In the
   war of liberation under the Maccabees the Syrians had attempted to
   fortify Jericho. [5001] These forts were afterwards destroyed by Pompey
   in his campaign. Herod the Great had first plundered, and then
   partially rebuilt, fortified, and adorned Jericho. It was here that he
   died. [5002] His son Archelaus also built there a palace. At the time
   of which we write, it was, of course, under Roman dominion. Long
   before, it had recovered its ancient fame for fertility and its
   prosperity. Josephus describes it as the richest part of the country,
   and calls it a little Paradise. Antony had bestowed the revenues of its
   balsam-plantations as an Imperial gift upon Cleopatra, who in turn sold
   them to Herod. Here grew palm-trees of various kinds, sycamores, the
   cypress-flower, [5003] the myrobalsamum, which yielded precious oil,
   but especially the balsam-plant. If to these advantages of climate,
   soil, and productions we add, that it was, so to speak, the key of
   Judæa towards the east, that it lay on the caravan-road from Damascus
   and Arabia, that it was a great commercial and military centre, and
   lastly, its nearness to Jerusalem, to which it formed the last station'
   on the road of the festive pilgrims from Galilee and Peræa - it will
   not be difficult to understand either its importance or its prosperity.

   We can picture to ourselves the scene, as our Lord on that afternoon in
   early spring beheld it. There it was, indeed, already summer, for, as
   Josephus tells us, [5004] even in winter the inhabitants could only
   bear the lightest clothing of linen. We are approaching it from the
   Jordan. It is protected by walls, flanked by four forts. These walls,
   the theatre, and the amphitheatre, have been built by Herod; the new
   palace and its splendid gardens are the work of Archelaus. All around
   wave groves of feathery palms, rising in stately beauty; stretch
   gardens of roses, and especially sweet-scented balsam-plantations, the
   largest behind the royal gardens, of which the perfume is carried by
   the wind almost out to sea, and which may have given to the city its
   name (Jericho, the perfumed'). It is the Eden of Palestine, the very
   fairyland of the old world. And how strangely is this gem set! Deep
   down in that hollowed valley, through which tortuous Jordan winds, to
   lose his waters in the slimy mass of the Sea of Judgment. The river and
   the Dead Sea are nearly equidistant from the town, about six miles. Far
   across the river rise the mountains of Moab, on which lies the purple
   and violet colouring. Towards Jerusalem and northwards stretch those
   bare limestone hills, the hiding-place of robbers along the desolate
   road towards the City. There, and in the neighbouring wilderness of
   Judæa, are also the lonely dwellings of anchorites, while over all this
   strangely varied scene has been flung the many-coloured mantle of a
   perpetual summer. And in the streets of Jericho a motley throng meets:
   pilgrims from Galilee and Peræa, priests who have a station' here,
   traders from all lands, who have come to purchase or to sell, or are on
   the great caravan-road from Arabia and Damascus - robbers and
   anchorites, wild fanatics, soldiers, courtiers, and busy publicans -
   for Jericho was the central station for the collection of tax and
   custom, both on native produce and on that brought from across Jordan.
   And yet it was a place for dreaming also, under that glorious
   summer-sky, in those scented groves - when these many figures from
   far-off lands and that crowd of priests, numbering, according to
   tradition, half those in Jerusalem, [5005] seemed fleeting as in a
   vision, and (as Jewish legend had it) the sound of Temple-music came
   from Moriah, borne in faint echoes on the breeze, like the distant
   sound of many waters. [5006]

   It was through Jericho that Jesus, having entered,' was passing. [5007]
   [5008] Tidings of the approach of the festive band, consisting of His
   disciples and Apostles, and headed by the Master Himself, must have
   preceded Him, these six miles from the fords of Jordan. His Name, His
   Works, His Teaching - perhaps Himself, must have been known to the
   people of Jericho, just as they must have been aware of the feelings of
   the leaders of the people, perhaps of the approaching great contest
   between them and the Prophet of Nazareth. Was He a good man; had He
   wrought those great miracles in the power of God or by Satanic
   influence - was He the Messiah or the Antichrist; would He bring
   salvation to the world, or entail ruin on His own nation? Conquer or be
   destroyed? Was it only one more in the long list of delusions and
   illusions, or was the long-promised morning of heaven's own day at last
   to break? Close by was Bethany, whence tidings had come; most
   incredible yet unquestioned and unquestionable, of the raising of
   Lazarus, so well known to all in that neighbourhood. And yet the
   Sanhedrin - it was well known - had resolved on His death! At any rate
   there was no concealment about Him; and here, in face of all, and
   accompanied by His followers - humble and unlettered, it must be
   admitted, but thoroughly convinced of His superhuman claims, and deeply
   attached - Jesus was going up to Jerusalem to meet His enemies!

   It was the custom, when a festive band passed through a place, that the
   inhabitants gathered in the streets to bid their brethren welcome. And
   on that afternoon, surely, scarce any one in Jericho but would go forth
   to see this pilgrim-band. Men - curious, angry, half-convinced; women,
   holding up their babes, it may be for a passing blessing, or pushing
   forward their children that in after years they might say they had seen
   the Prophet of Nazareth; traders, soldiers, a solid wall of onlookers
   before their gardens was this crowd' along the road by which Jesus was
   to pass.' Would He only pass through the place, or be the guest of some
   of the leading priests in Jericho; would He teach, or work any miracle,
   or silently go on His way to Bethany? Only one in all that crowd seemed
   unwelcome; alone, and out of place. It was the chief of the Publicans'
   - the head of the tax and customs department. As his name shows, he was
   a Jew; but yet that very name Zacchæus, Zakkai,' the just,' or pure,'
   sounded like mockery. We know in what repute Publicans were held, and
   what opportunities of wrong-doing and oppression they possessed. And
   from his after-confession it is only too evident, that Zacchæus had to
   the full used them for evil. And he had got that for which he had given
   up alike his nation and his soul: he was rich.' If, as Christ had
   taught, it was harder for any rich man to enter the Kingdom of Heaven
   than for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle, what of him who
   had gotten his riches by such means?

   And yet Zacchæus was in the crowd that had come to see Jesus. What had
   brought him? Certainly, not curiosity only. Was it the long working of
   conscience; or a dim, scarcely self-avowed hope of something better; or
   had he heard Him before; or of Him, that He was so unlike those harsh
   leaders and teachers of Israel, who refused all hope on earth and in
   heaven to such as him, that Jesus received - nay, called to Him the
   publicans and sinners? Or was it only the nameless, deep, irresistible
   inward drawing of the Holy Ghost, which may perhaps have brought us, as
   it has brought many, we know not why or how, to the place and hour of
   eternal decision for God, and of infinite grace to our souls? Certain
   it is, that, as so often in such circumstances, Zacchæus encountered
   only hindrances which seemed to render his purpose almost impossible.
   The narrative is singularly detailed and pictorial. Zacchæus, trying to
   push his way through the press,' and repulsed; Zacchæus, little of
   stature,' and unable to look over the shoulders of others: it reads
   almost like a symbolical story of one who is seeking to see Jesus,' but
   cannot push his way because of the crowd - whether of the
   self-righteous, or of his own conscious sins, that seem to stand
   between him and the Saviour, and which will not make room for him,
   while he is unable to look over them because he is, so to speak, little
   of stature.'

   Needless questions have been asked as to the import of Zacchæus' wish
   to see who Jesus was.' It is just this vagueness of desire, which
   Zacchæus himself does not understand, which is characteristic. And,
   since he cannot otherwise succeed, he climbs up one of those
   wide-spreading sycamores in a garden, perhaps close to his own house,
   along the only road by which Jesus can pass - to see Him.' Now the band
   is approaching, through that double living wall: first, the Saviour,
   viewing that crowd, with, ah! how different thoughts from theirs -
   surrounded by His Apostles, the face of each expressive of such
   feelings as were uppermost; conspicuous among them, he who carried the
   bag,' with furtive, uncertain, wild glance here and there, as one who
   seeks to gather himself up to a terrible deed. Behind them are the
   disciples, men and women, who are going up with Him to the Feast. Of
   all persons in that crowd the least noted, the most hindered in coming
   - and yet the one most concerned, was the Chief Publican. It is always
   so - it is ever the order of the Gospel, that the last shall be first.
   Yet never more self-unconscious was Zacchæus than at the moment when
   Jesus was entering that garden-road, and passing under the overhanging
   branches of that sycamore, the crowd closing up behind, and following
   as He went along. Only one thought - without ulterior conscious object,
   temporal or spiritual - filled his whole being. The present absolutely
   held him - when those wondrous Eyes, out of which heaven itself seemed
   to look upon earth, were upturned, and that Face of infinite grace,
   never to be forgotten, beamed upon him the welcome of recognition, and
   He uttered the self-spoken invitation in which the invited was the real
   Inviter, the guest the true Host. Did Jesus know Zacchæus before - or
   was it only all open to His Divine gaze as He looked up and saw him?'
   This latter seems, indeed, indicated by the must' of His abiding in the
   house of Zacchæus - as if His Father had so appointed it, and Jesus
   come for that very purpose. And herein, also, seems this story
   spiritually symbolical.

   As bidden by Christ, Zacchæus made haste and came down.' Under the
   gracious influence of the Holy Ghost he received Him rejoicing.'
   Nothing was as yet clear to him, and yet all was joyous within his
   soul. In that dim twilight of the new day, and at this new creation,
   the Angels sang and the Sons of God shouted together, and all was
   melody and harmony in his heart. But a few steps farther, and they were
   at the house of the Chief Publican. Strange hostelry this for the Lord;
   yet not stranger in that Life of absolute contrasts than that first
   hostelry, the same, even as regards its designation in the Gospel,
   [5009] as when the manager had been His cradle; not so strange, as at
   the Sabbath-feast of the Pharisee Rulers of the Synagogue. But now the
   murmur of disappointment and anger ran through the accompanying crowd -
   which perhaps had not before heard what had passed between Jesus and
   the Publican, certainly, had not understood, or else not believed its
   import - because He was gone to be guest with a man that was a sinner.
   Oh, terribly fatal misunderstanding of all that was characteristic of
   the Mission of the Christ! oh, terribly fatal blindness and jealousy!
   But it was this sudden shock of opposition which awoke Zacchæus to full
   consciousness. The hands so rudely and profanely thrust forward only
   served to rend the veil. It often needs some such sudden shock of
   opposition, some sudden sharp contest, to waken the new convert to full
   consciousness, to bring before him, in clear outline, alike the past
   and the present. In that moment Zacchæus saw it all: what his past had
   been, what his present was, what his future must be. Standing forth,
   not so much before the crowd as before the Lord, and not ashamed, nay,
   scarcely conscious of the confession it implied - so much is the sorrow
   of the past in true repentance swallowed up by the joy of the present -
   Zacchæus vowed fourfold restoration, as by a thief, [5010] of what had
   become his through false accusation, [5011] as well as the half of all
   his goods to the poor. And so the whole current of his life had been
   turned, in those few moments, through his joyous reception of Christ,
   the Saviour of sinners; and Zacchæus the public robber, the rich Chief
   of the Publicans, had become an almsgiver.

   It was then, when it had been all done in silence, as mostly all God's
   great works, that Jesus spake it to him, for his endless comfort, and
   in the hearing of all, for their and our teaching: This day became -
   arose - there salvation to this house,' forasmuch as,' truly and
   spiritually, this one also is a son of Abraham.' And, as regards this
   man, and all men, so long as time endureth: For the Son of Man came to
   seek and to save that which was lost.'

   The Evangelistic record passes with significant silence over that night
   in the house of Zacchæus. It forms not part of the public history of
   the Kingdom of God, but of that joy with which a stranger intermeddleth
   not. It was in the morning, when the journey in company with His
   disciples was resumed, that the next public incident occurred in the
   healing of the blind by the wayside. [5012] The small divergences in
   the narratives of the three Evangelists are well known. It may have
   been that, as St. Matthew relates, there were two blind men sitting by
   the wayside, and that St. Luke and St. Mark mention only one - the
   latter by name as Bar Timæus' - because he was the spokesman. But, in
   regard to the other divergence, trifling as it is, that St. Luke places
   the incident at the arrival, the other two Evangelists at the departure
   of Jesus from Jericho, it is better to admit our inability to
   conciliate these differing notes of time, than to make clumsy attempts
   at harmonising them. We can readily believe that there may have been
   circumstances unknown to us, which might show these statements to be
   not really diverging. And, if it were otherwise, it would in no way
   affect the narrative itself. Historical information could only have
   been derived from local sources; and we have already seen reason to
   infer that St. Luke had gathered his from personal inquiry on the spot.
   And it may have been, either that the time was not noted, or wrongly
   noted, or that this miracle, as the only one in Jericho, may have been
   reported to him before mention was made of the reception by Christ of
   Zacchæus. In any case, it shows the independence of the account of St.
   Luke from that of the other two Evangelists.

   Little need be said of the incident itself: it is so like the other
   Deeds of His Life. So to speak - it was left in Jericho as the
   practical commentary, and the seal on what Christ had said and done the
   previous evening in regard to Zacchæus. Once more the crowd was
   following Jesus, as in the morning He resumed the journey with His
   disciples. And, there by the wayside, begging, sat the blind men -
   there, where Jesus was passing. As they heard the tramp of many feet
   and the sound of many voices, they learned that Jesus of Nazareth was
   passing by. It is all deeply touching, and deeply symbolical. But what
   must their faith have been, when there, in Jericho, they not only owned
   Him as the true Messiah, but cried - in the deep significance of that
   special mode of address, as coming from Jewish lips: [5013] Jesus, Thou
   Son of David, have mercy on me!' It was quite in accordance with what
   one might almost have expected - certainly with the temper of Jericho,
   as we learned it on the previous evening, when many,' the multitude,'
   they which went before,' would have bidden that cry for help be silent
   as an unwarrantable intrusion and interruption, if not a needless and
   meaningless application. But only all the louder and more earnest rose
   the cry, as the blind felt that they might for ever be robbed of the
   opportunity that was slipping past. And He, Who listens to every cry of
   distress, heard this. He stood still, and commanded the blind to be
   called. Then it was that the sympathy of sudden hope seized the
   multitude' the wonder about to be wrought fell, so to speak, in its
   heavenly influences upon them, as they comforted the blind in the agony
   of rising despair with the words, He calleth thee.' [5014] As so often,
   we are indebted to St. Mark for the vivid sketch of what passed. We can
   almost see Bartimæus as, on receiving Christ's summons, he casts aside
   his upper garment and hastily comes. That question: what he would that
   Jesus should do unto him, must have been meant for those around more
   than for the blind. The cry to the son of David had been only for
   mercy. It might have been for alms - though, as the address, so the
   gift bestowed in answer, would be right royal - after the order of
   David.' But our general cry for mercy must ever become detailed when we
   come into the Presence of the Christ. And the faith of the blind rose
   to the full height of the Divine possibilities opened before them.
   Their inward eyes had received capacity for The Light, before that of
   earth lit up their long darkness. In the language of St. Matthew, Jesus
   had compassion on them and touched their eyes.' This is one aspect of
   it. The other is that given by St. Mark and St. Luke, in recording the
   words with which He accompanied the healing: Thy faith has saved thee.'
   [5015]

   And these two results came of it: all the people, when they saw it gave
   praise unto God;' and, as for Bartimæus, though Jesus had bidden him go
   thy way,' yet, immediately he received his sight,' he followed Jesus in
   the way,' glorifying God. [5016] And this is Divine disobedience, or
   rather the obedience of the spirit as against the observance of the
   letter. [5017]

   The arrival of the Paschal band from Galilee and Peræa was not in
   advance of many others. In truth, most pilgrims from a distance would
   probably come to the Holy City some days before the Feast, for the sake
   of purification in the Temple, since those who for any reason needed
   such - and there would be few families that did not require it -
   generally deferred it till the festive season brought them to
   Jerusalem. We owe this notice, and that which follows, to St. John,
   [5018] and in this again recognise the Jewish writer of the Fourth
   Gospel. It was only natural that these pilgrims should have sought for
   Jesus, and, when they did not find Him, discuss among themselves the
   probability of His coming to the Feast. His absence would, after the
   work which He had done these three years, the claim which He made, and
   the defiant denial of it by the priesthood and the Sanhedrin, have been
   regarded as a virtual surrender to the enemy. There was a time when He
   need not have appeared at the Feast - when, as we see it, it was better
   He should not come. But that time was past. The chief priests and the
   Pharisees also knew it, and they had given commandment that, if any one
   knew where He was, he would show it, that they might take Him.' It
   would be better to ascertain where He lodged, and to seize Him before
   He appeared in public, in the Temple.

   But it was not as they had imagined. Without concealment Christ came to
   Bethany, where Lazarus lived, whom He had raised from the dead. He came
   there six days before the Passover - and yet His coming was such that
   they could not take Him.' [5019] They might as well take Him in the
   Temple; nay, more easily. For, the moment His stay in Bethany became
   known, much people [5020] of the Jews' came out, not only for His sake,
   but to see that Lazarus whom He had raised from the dead. And, of those
   who so came, many went away believing. And how, indeed, could it be
   otherwise? Thus one of their plans was frustrated, and the evil seemed
   only to grow worse. The Sanhedrin could perhaps not be moved to such
   flagrant outrage of all Jewish Law, but the chief priests,' who had no
   such scruples, consulted how they might put Lazarus also to death.
   [5021]

   Yet, not until His hour had come could man do aught against Christ or
   His disciples. And, in contrast to such scheming, haste and search, we
   mark the majestic calm and quiet of Him Who knew what was before Him.
   Jesus had arrived at Bethany six days before the Passover - that is, on
   a Friday. [5022] The day after was the Sabbath, and they made Him a
   supper.' [5023] It was the special festive meal of the Sabbath. The
   words of St. John seem to indicate that the meal was a public one, as
   if the people of Bethany had combined to do Him this honour, and so
   share the privilege of attending the feast. In point of fact, we know
   from St. Matthew and St. Mark that it took place in the house of Simon
   the Leper' - not, of course, an actual leper - but one who had been
   such. Perhaps his guestchamber was the largest in Bethany; perhaps the
   house was nearest to the Synagogue; or there may have been other
   reasons for it, unknown to us - least likely is the suggestion that
   Simon was the husband of Martha, [5024] or else her father. [5025] But
   all is in character. Among the guests is Lazarus: and, prominent in
   service, Martha; and Mary (the unnamed woman of the other two Gospels,
   which do not mention that household by name), is also true to her
   character. [5026] She had an alabaster' [5027] of spikenard genuine,'
   which was very precious. It held a litra' ({hebrew} or {hebrew}) which
   was a Roman pound,' and its value could not have been less than nearly
   9l. Remembering the price of Nard, [5028] as given by Pliny, [5029] and
   that the Syrian was only next in value to the Indian, which Pliny
   regarded as the best [5030] ointment of genuine' [5031] Nard -
   unadulterated and unmixed with any other balsam [5032] (as the less
   expensive kinds were), such a price (300 dinars = nearly 9l.) would be
   by no means excessive; indeed, much lower than at Rome. But, viewed in
   another light, the sum spent was very large, remembering that 200
   dinars (about 6l.) nearly sufficed to provide bread for 5,000 men with
   their families, and that the ordinary wages of a labourer amounted to
   only one dinar a day.

   We can here offer only conjectures, But it is, at least, not
   unreasonable to suppose - remembering the fondness of Jewish women for
   such perfumes [5033] - that Mary may have had that alabaster' of very
   costly ointment from olden days, before she had learned to serve
   Christ. Then, when she came to know Him, and must have learned how
   constantly that Decease, of which He ever spoke, was before His Mind,
   she may have put it aside, kept it,' against the day of His burying.'
   And now the decisive hour had come. Jesus may have told her, as He had
   told the disciples, what was before Him in Jerusalem at the Feast, and
   she would be far more quick to understand, even as she must have known
   far better than they, how great was the danger from the Sanhedrin. And
   it is this believing apprehension of the mystery of His Death on her
   part, and this preparation of deepest love for it - this mixture of
   sorrow, faith, and devotion - which made her deed so precious, that,
   wherever in the future the Gospel would be preached, this also that she
   had done would be recorded for a memorial of her. [5034] And the more
   we think of it, the better can we understand, how at that last feast of
   fellowship, when all the other guests realised not - no, not even His
   disciples - how near the end was, she would come aforehand to anoint
   His Body for the burying.' [5035] [5036] Her faith made it a twofold
   anointing: that of the best Guest at the last feast, and that of
   preparation for that Burial which, of all others, she apprehended as so
   terribly near. And deepest humility now offered, what most earnest love
   had provided, and intense faith, in view of what was coming, applied.
   And so she poured the precious ointment over His Head, over His Feet
   [5037] - then, stooping over them, wiped them with her hair, as if, not
   only in evidence of service and love, but in fellowship of His Death.
   [5038] And the house was filled'- and to all time His House, the
   Church, is filled - with the odour of the ointment.'

   It is ever the light which throws the shadows of objects - and this
   deed of faith and love now cast the features of Judas in gigantic dark
   outlines against the scene. He knew the nearness of Christ's Betrayal,
   and hated the more; she knew of the nearness of His precious Death, and
   loved the more. It was not that he cared for the poor, when, taking the
   mask of charity, he simulated anger that such costly ointment had not
   been sold, and the price given to the poor. For he was essentially
   dishonest, a thief,' and covetousness was the underlying master-passion
   of his soul. The money, claimed for the poor, would only have been used
   by himself. Yet such was his pretence of righteousness, such his
   influence as a man of prudence' among the disciples, and such their sad
   weakness, that they, or at least some,' [5039] expressed indignation
   among themselves and against her who had done the deed of love, which,
   when viewed in the sublimeness of a faith, that accepted and prepared
   for the death of a Saviour Whom she so loved, and to Whom this last,
   the best service she could, was to be devoted, would for ever cause her
   to be though of as an example of loving. There is something
   inexpressibly sad, yet so patient, gentle, and tender in Christ's Let
   her alone.' Surely, never could there be waste in ministry of love to
   Him! Nay, there is unspeakable pathos in what He says of His near
   Burying, as if He would still their souls in view of it. That He, Who
   was ever of the poor and with them, Who for our sakes became poor, that
   through His poverty we might be made rich, should have to plead for a
   last service of love to Himself, and for Mary, and as against a Judas,
   seems indeed, the depth of self-abasement. Yet, even so, has this
   falsely-spoken plea for the poor become a real plea, since He has left
   us this, as it were, as His last charge, and that by His own Death,
   that we have the poor always with us. And so do even the words of
   covetous dishonesty become, when passing across Him, transformed into
   the command of charity, and the breath of hell is changed into the
   summer-warmth of the Church's constant service to Christ in the
   ministry to His poor.

     __________________________________________________________________

   [4999] 2 Kings xxv. 5.

   [5000] Ezra ii. 34.

   [5001] 1 Macc. ix. 50.

   [5002] Jos. Ant. xvii. 6. 5; Jewish War i. 33.6 .

   [5003] Cant. i. 14.

   [5004] War iv. 8. 3.

   [5005] Jer. Taan. iv. 2.

   [5006] Jer. Sukk. v. 3.

   [5007] So more accurately.

   [5008] St. Luke xix. 1-10.

   [5009] The word here used is katalo, and the hostelry at Bethlehem (St.
   Luke ii. 7) was katluma.

   [5010] Ex. xxii. 1.

   [5011] Literally, if I have sycophanted any man anything.' It should be
   remarked, as making this restoration by Zacchæus the more intelligible,
   that to a penitent Jew this would immediately occur. In the Talmud
   there is a long discussion as to restoration by penitents in cases
   where the malappropriation was open to question, when the Talmud lays
   down the principle, that if any one wishes to escape the Divine
   punishment, he must restore even that which, according to strict
   justice, he might not be obliged to give up (Baba Mez. 37 a).

   [5012] St. Matt. xx. 29-34; St.Mark x. 46-52; St. Luke xviii. 35-43.

   [5013] Comp. our remarks on this point in vol. ii. p. 49.

   [5014] St. Mark x. 49.

   [5015] The expression is the same in St. Mark and St. Luke.

   [5016] St. Luke.

   [5017] The Parable of the Ten Pieces of Money will be expounded in
   connection with the last series of Parables.

   [5018] St. John xi. 55-57.

   [5019] St. John xii. 1.

   [5020] Canon Westcott prefers the reading: the common people.'

   [5021] St. John xii. 10,11.

   [5022] On the precise dates, see the Commentaries. It has been
   impossible here to discuss in detail every little difficulty. Rather
   has it been thought best to tell the events, as we regard them as
   having taken place. See Nebe, Leidensgesch. i. pp. 23, 24.

   [5023] St. John xii. 1.

   [5024] Hengstenberg.

   [5025] Ewald.

   [5026] Those, if any, who identify this Mary with the Magdalene, and
   regard the anointing of St. Luke vii. 36, &c., as identical with that
   of Bethany, are referred, for full discussion and refutation, to Nebe,
   Leidensgesch. vol. i. pp. 21 &c., 30 &c.

   [5027] Unguenta optime servantur in alabastris (Plin. H. N. xiii. 2,
   3). These alabasters' - for the flask itself obtained that name from
   the stone used - had at the top the form of a cylinder, and are likened
   by Pliny to a closed rose-bud.

   [5028] Kerith. 6 a.

   [5029] Hist. Nat. xii. 12, 26.

   [5030] xii. 12, 26.

   [5031] The expression pistik has giver rise to much controversy. Of the
   various renderings, that by genuine' has most in its favour. For a full
   discussion see Nebe, u. s. pp. 33, 34, and Meyer on St. Mark xiv. 3-9.

   [5032] On the various mixtures of precious ointments, their
   adulteration, the cost of the various ingredients, and the use made of
   perfumes in Palestine, see Herzfeld, u. s. pp. 99, 100, 191, 192.

   [5033] See Book III. chap. xxi.

   [5034] St. Matt. xxvi. 13.

   [5035] St. Mark xiv. 8.

   [5036] St. Matthew and St. Mark.

   [5037] St. John. There is manifestly neither contradiction nor
   divergence here between the Evangelists. Mary first poured the nard
   over the Head, and then over His Feet (Godet sees this implied in the
   katcheen ato of St. Mark). St. John notices the anointing of the Feet,
   not only as the act of greatest humility and the mark of deepest
   veneration, but from its unusual character, while anointing of the head
   was not so uncommon. We recall the ideal picture of Aaron when anointed
   to the priesthood, Ps. cxxxiii. 2, to mark here the fulfilment of the
   type when the Great High-Priest was anointed for His Sacrifice. She who
   had so often sat at His feet, now anoints them, and alike for love,
   reverence, and fellowship of His sufferings, will not wipe them but
   with her hair.

   [5038] St. John.

   [5039] St. Mark xiv. 41.
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

                                    Book V.
                            THE CROSS AND THE CROWN.

   Ave, Scala peccatorum,

   Qua ascendit rex coelorum,

   Ut ad choros Angelorum

   Homo sic ascenderet;

   In te vitam reparavit

   Auctor vitæ, proles David,

   Et sic se humiliavit.

   Ut mundum redimeret.

   Ap. Daniel, Thes. Hymnol. vol. v. p. 183.

   The blessing from the cloud that showers,

   In wondrous twofold birth

   Of heaven is and earth -

   He is both yours, ye hosts, and ours:

   Hosannah, David's Son,

   For victory is won!

   He left us with a blessing here,

   And took it to the sky;

   The blessing from on high

   Bespeaks to us His Presence near:

   Hosannah, David's Son,

   For victory is won!'

   (From an Ascension Hymn). - A. E.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER I.
THE FIRST DAY IN PASSION-WEEK - PALM-SUNDAY - THE ROYAL ENTRY INTO JERUSALEM

   (St. Matt. xxi. 1-11; St. Mark xi. 1-11; St. Luke xix. 29-44; St. John
   xii. 12-19.)

   At length the time of the end had come. Jesus was about to make Entry
   into Jerusalem as King: King of the Jews, as Heir of David's royal
   line, with all of symbolic, typic, and prophetic import attaching to
   it. Yet not as Israel after the flesh expected its Messiah was the Son
   of David to make triumphal entrance, but as deeply and significantly
   expressive of His Mission and Work, and as of old the rapt seer had
   beheld afar off the outlined picture of the Messiah-King: not in the
   proud triumph of war-conquests, but in the meek' rule of peace.

   It is surely one of the strangest mistakes of modern criticism to
   regard this Entry of Christ into Jerusalem as implying that, fired by
   enthusiasm, He had for the moment expected that the people would
   receive Him as the Messiah. [5040] And it seems little, if at all
   better, when this Entry is described as an apparent concession to the
   fevered expectations of His disciples and the multitude . . . the
   grave, sad accommodation to thoughts other than His own to which the
   Teacher of new truths must often have recourse when He finds Himself
   misinterpreted by those who stand together on a lower level.' [5041]
   Apologies' are the weakness of Apologetics' - and any accommodation'
   theory can have no place in the history of the Christ. On the contrary,
   we regard His Royal Entry into the Jerusalem of Prophecy and of the
   Crucifixion as an integral part of the history of Christ, which would
   not be complete, nor thoroughly consistent, without it. It behoved Him
   so to enter Jerusalem, because He was a King; and as King to enter it
   in such manner, because He was such a King - and both the one and the
   other were in accordance with the prophecy of old.

   It was a bright day in early spring of the year 29, when the festive
   procession set out from the home at Bethany. There can be no reasonable
   doubt as to the locality of that hamlet (the modern El-Azariye, of
   Lazarus'), perched on a broken rocky plateau on the other side of
   Olivet. More difficulty attaches to the identification of Bethphage,
   which is associated with it, the place not being mentioned in the Old
   Testament, though repeatedly in Jewish writings. But, even so, there is
   a curious contradiction, since Bethphage is sometimes spoken of as
   distinct from Jerusalem, [5042] while at others it is described as, for
   ecclesiastical purposes, part of the City itself. [5043] Perhaps the
   name Bethphage - house of figs' - was given alike to that district
   generally, and to a little village close to Jerusalem where the
   district began. [5044] And this may explain the peculiar reference, in
   the Synoptic Gospels, to Bethphage (St. Matthew), and again to
   Bethphage and Bethany.' [5045] For, St. Matthew and St. Mark relate
   Christ's brief stay at Bethany and His anointing by Mary not in
   chronological order, [5046]   but introduce it at a later period, as it
   were, in contrast to the betrayal of Judas. [5047] Accordingly, they
   pass from the Miracles at Jericho immediately to the Royal Entry into
   Jerusalem - from Jericho to Bethphage,' or, more exactly, to Bethphage
   and Bethany,' leaving for the present unnoticed what had occurred in
   the latter hamlet.

   Although all the four Evangelists relate Christ's Entry into Jerusalem,
   they seem to do so from different standpoints. The Synoptists accompany
   Him from Bethany, while St. John, in accordance with the general scheme
   of his narrative, seems to follow from Jerusalem that multitude which,
   on tidings of His approach, hastened to meet Him. Even this
   circumstance, as also the paucity of events recorded on that day,
   proves that it could not have been at early morning that Jesus left
   Bethany. Remembering, that it was the last morning of rest before the
   great contest, we may reverently think of much that may have passed in
   the Soul of Jesus and in the home of Bethany. And now He has left that
   peaceful resting-place. It was probably soon after His outset, that He
   sent the two disciples' - possibly Peter and John [5048] - into the
   village over against' them - presumably Bethphage. There they would
   find by the side of the road an ass's colt tied, whereon never man had
   sat. We mark the significant symbolism of the latter, in connection
   with the general conditions of consecration to Jehovah [5049] - and
   note in it, as also in the Mission of the Apostles, that this was
   intended by Christ to be His Royal and Messianic Entry. This colt they
   were to loose and to bring to Him.

   The disciples found all as He had said. When they reached Bethphage,
   they saw, by a doorway where two roads met, the colt tied by its
   mother. As they loosed it, the owners' and certain of them that stood
   by' [5050]   asked their purpose, to which, as directed by the Master,
   they answered: The Lord [the Master, Christ] hath need of him,' when,
   as predicted, no further hindrance was offered. In explanation of this
   we need not resort to the theory of a miraculous influence, nor even
   suppose that the owners of the colt were themselves disciples.' Their
   challenge to the two,' and the little more than permission which they
   gave, seem to forbid this idea. Nor is such explanation requisite. From
   the pilgrim-band which had accompanied Jesus from Galilee and Peræa,
   and preceded Him to Jerusalem, from the guests at the Sabbath-feast in
   Bethany, and from the people who had gone out to see both Jesus and
   Lazarus, the tidings of the proximity of Jesus and of His approaching
   arrival must have spread in the City. Perhaps that very morning some
   had come from Bethany, and told it in the Temple, among the festive
   bands - specially among his own Galileans, and generally in Jerusalem,
   that on that very day - in a few hours - Jesus might be expected to
   enter the City. Such, indeed, must have been the case, since, from St.
   John's account, a great multitude' went forth to meet Him.' The latter,
   we can have little doubt, must have mostly consisted, not of citizens
   of Jerusalem, whose enmity to Christ was settled, but of those that had
   come to the Feast.' [5051] With these went also a number of Pharisees,'
   their hearts filled with bitterest thoughts of jealousy and hatred.
   [5052] And, as we shall presently see, it is of great importance to
   keep in mind this composition of the multitude.'

   If such were the circumstances, all is natural. We can understand, how
   eager questioners would gather about the owners of the colt (St. Mark),
   there at the cross-roads at Bethphage, just outside Jerusalem; and how,
   so soon as from the bearing and the peculiar words of the disciples
   they understood their purpose, the owners of the ass and colt would
   grant its use for the solemn Entry into the City of the Teacher of
   Nazareth,' [5053] Whom the multitude was so eagerly expecting; and,
   lastly, how, as from the gates of Jerusalem tidings spread of what had
   passed in Bethphage, the multitude would stream forth to meet Jesus.

   Meantime Christ and those who followed Him from Bethany had slowly
   entered on [5054]   the well-known caravan-road from Jericho to
   Jerusalem. It is the most southern of three, which converge close to
   the City, perhaps at the very place where the colt had stood tied. The
   road soon loses sight of Bethany. It is now a rough, but still broad
   and well-defined mountain-track, winding over rock and loose stones; a
   steep declivity on the left; the sloping shoulder of Olivet above on
   the right; fig-trees below and above, here and there growing out of the
   rocky soil.' [5055] Somewhere here the disciples who brought the colt'
   must have met Him. They were accompanied by many, and immediately
   followed by more. For, as already stated, Bethphage - we presume the
   village - formed almost part of Jerusalem, and during Easter-week must
   have been crowded by pilgrims, who could not find accommodation within
   the City walls. And the announcement, that disciples of Jesus had just
   fetched the beast of burden on which Jesus was about to enter
   Jerusalem, must have quickly spread among the crowds which thronged the
   Temple and the City.

   As the two disciples, accompanied, or immediately followed by the
   multitude, brought the colt' to Christ, two streams of people met' -
   the one coming from the City, the other from Bethany. The impression
   left on our minds is, that what followed was unexpected by those who
   accompanied Christ, that it took them by surprise. The disciples, who
   understood not, [5056] till the light of the Resurrection-glory had
   been poured on their minds, the significance of these things,' even
   after they had occurred, seem not even to have guessed, that it was of
   set purpose Jesus was about to make His Royal Entry into Jerusalem.
   Their enthusiasm seems only to have been kindled when they saw the
   procession from the town come to meet Jesus with palm-branches, cut
   down by the way, and greeting Him with Hosanna-shouts of welcome. Then
   they spread their garments on the colt, and set Jesus thereon -
   unwrapped their loose cloaks from their shoulders and stretched them
   along the rough path, to form a momentary carpet as He approached.'
   Then also in their turn they cut down branches from the trees and
   gardens through which they passed, or plaited and twisted
   palm-branches, and strewed them as a rude matting in His way, while
   they joined in, and soon raised to a much higher pitch [5057] the
   Hosanna of welcoming praise. Nor need we wonder at their ignorance at
   first of the meaning of that, in which themselves were chief actors. We
   are too apt to judge them from our standpoint, eighteen centuries
   later, and after full apprehension of the significance of the event.
   These men walked in the procession almost as in a dream, or as dazzled
   by a brilliant light all around - as if impelled by a necessity, and
   carried from event to event, which came upon them in a succession of
   but partially understood surprises.

   They had now ranged themselves: the multitude which had come from the
   City preceding, that which had come with Him from Bethany following the
   triumphant progress of Israel's King, meek, and sitting upon an ass,
   and a colt the foal of an ass.' Gradually the long procession swept up
   and over the ridge where first begins "the descent of the Mount of
   Olives" towards Jerusalem. At this point the first view is caught of
   the south-eastern corner of the City. The Temple and the more northern
   portions are hid by the slope of Olivet on the right; what is seen is
   only Mount Zion, now for the most part a rough field.' But at that time
   it rose, terrace upon terrace, from the Palace of the Maccabees and
   that of the High-Priest, a very city of palaces, till the eye rested in
   the summit on that castle, city, and palace, with its frowning towers
   and magnificent gardens, the royal abode of Herod, supposed to occupy
   the very site of the Palace of David. They had been greeting Him with
   Hosannas! But enthusiasm, especially in such a cause, is infectious.
   They were mostly stranger-pilgrims that had come from the City, chiefly
   because they had heard of the raising of Lazarus. [5058] And now they
   must have questioned them which came from Bethany, who in turn related
   that of which themselves had been eyewitnesses. [5059] We can imagine
   it all - how the fire would leap from heart to heart. So He was the
   promised Son of David - and the Kingdom was at hand! It may have been
   just as the precise point of the road was reached, where the City of
   David' first suddenly emerges into view, at the descent of the Mount of
   Olives,' that the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and
   praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had
   seen.' [5060] As the burning words of joy and praise, the record of
   what they had seen, passed from mouth to mouth, and they caught their
   first sight of the City of David,' adorned as a bride to welcome her
   King, Davidic praise to David's Greater Son wakened the echoes of old
   Davidic Psalms in the morning-light of their fulfilment. Hosanna to the
   Son of David! Blessed be He that cometh in the Name of the Lord. . . .
   Blessed the Kingdom that cometh, the Kingdom of our father David. . . .
   Blessed be He that cometh in the Name of the Lord. . . . Hosanna . . .
   Hosanna in the highest . . .Peace in heaven, and glory in the highest.'

   They were but broken utterances, partly based upon Ps. cxviii., partly
   taken from it - the Hosanna,' [5061] or Save now,' and the Blessed be
   He that cometh in the Name of the Lord,' [5062] forming part of the
   responses by the people with which this Psalm was chanted on certain of
   the most solemn festivals. [5063] Most truly did they thus interpret
   and apply the Psalm, old and new Davidic praise mingling in their
   acclamations. At the same time it must be remembered that, according to
   Jewish tradition, Ps. cxviii. vv. 25-28, was also chanted antiphonally
   by the people of Jerusalem, as they went to welcome the festive
   pilgrims on their arrival, the latter always responding in the second
   clause of each verse, till the last verse of the Psalm vv. 25-28 [5064]
   was reached, which was sung by both parties in unison, Psalm ciii. 17
   being added by way of conclusion. [5065] But as the shout rang through
   the long defile,' carrying evidence far and wide, that, so far from
   condemning and forsaking, more than the ordinary pilgrim-welcome had
   been given to Jesus - the Pharisees, who had mingled with the crowd,
   turned to one another with angry frowns: Behold [see intently], how ye
   prevail nothing! See - the world [5066] is gone after Him!' It is
   always so, that, in the disappointment of malice, men turn in impotent
   rage against each other with taunts and reproaches. Then,
   psychologically true in this also, they made a desperate appeal to the
   Master Himself, Whom they so bitterly hated, to check and rebuke the
   honest zeal of His disciples. He had been silent hitherto - alone
   unmoved, or only deeply moved inwardly - amidst this enthusiastic
   crowd. He could be silent no longer - but, with a touch of quick and
   righteous indignation, pointed to the rocks and stones, telling those
   leaders of Israel, that, if the people held their peace, the very
   stones would cry out. [5067] [5068] It would have been so in that day
   of Christ's Entry into Jerusalem. And it has been so ever since.
   Silence has fallen these many centuries upon Israel; but the very
   stones of Jerusalem's ruin and desolateness have cried out that He,
   Whom in their silence they rejected, has come as King in the Name of
   the Lord.

   Again the procession advanced. The road descends a slight declivity,
   and the glimpse of the City is again withdrawn behind the intervening
   ridge of Olivet. A few moments and the path mounts again, it climbs a
   rugged ascent, it reaches a ledge of smooth rock, and in an instance
   the whole City bursts into view. As now the dome of the Mosque El-Aksa
   rises like a Ghost from the earth before the traveller stands on the
   ledge, so then must have risen the Temple-tower; as now the vast
   enclosure of the Mussulman sanctuary, so then must have spread the
   Temple courts; as now the grey town on its broken hills, so then the
   magnificent City, with its background - long since vanished away - of
   gardens and suburbs on the western plateau behind. Immediately before
   was the Valley of the Kedron, here seen in its greatest depth as it
   joins the Valley of Hinnom, and thus giving full effect to the great
   peculiarity of Jerusalem, seen only on its eastern side - its situation
   as of a City rising out of a deep abyss. It is hardly possible to doubt
   that this rise and turn of the road - this rocky ledge - was the exact
   point where the multitude paused again, and "He, when He beheld the
   City, wept over it."' Not with still weeping (dkrusen), as at the grave
   of Lazarus, but with loud and deep lamentation (klausen). The contrast
   was, indeed, terrible between the Jerusalem that rose before Him in all
   its beauty, glory, and security, and the Jerusalem which He saw in
   vision dimly rising on the sky, with the camp of the enemy around about
   it on every side, hugging it closer and closer in deadly embrace, and
   the very stockade' which the Roman Legions raised around it; [5069]
   then, another scene in the shifting panorama, and the city laid with
   the ground, and the gory bodies of her children among her ruins; and
   yet another scene: the silence and desolateness of death by the Hand of
   God - not one stone left upon another! We know only too well how
   literally this vision has become reality; and yet, though uttered as
   prophecy by Christ, and its reason so clearly stated, Israel to this
   day knows not the things which belong unto its peace, and the upturned
   scattered stones of its dispersion are crying out in testimony against
   it. But to this day, also do the tears of Christ plead with the Church
   on Israel's behalf, and His words bear within them precious seed of
   promise.

   We turn once more to the scene just described. For, it was no common
   pageantry; and Christ's public Entry into Jerusalem seems so altogether
   different from - we had almost said, inconsistent with - His previous
   mode of appearance. Evidently, the time for the silence so long
   enjoined had passed, and that for public declaration had come. And
   such, indeed, this Entry was. From the moment of His sending forth the
   two disciples to His acceptance of the homage of the multitude, and His
   rebuke of the Pharisee's attempt to arrest it, all must be regarded as
   designed or approved by Him: not only a public assertion of His
   Messiahship, but a claim to its national acknowledgment. And yet, even
   so, it was not to be the Messiah of Israel's conception, but He of
   prophetic picture: just and having salvation; lowly, and riding upon an
   ass.' [5070] It is foreign to our present purpose to discuss any
   general questions about this prophecy, or even to vindicate its
   application to the Messiah. But, when we brush aside all the
   trafficking and bargaining over words, that constitutes so much of
   modern criticism, which in its care over the lesson so often loses the
   spirit, there can, at least, be no question that this prophecy was
   intended to introduce, in contrast to earthly warfare and kingly
   triumph, another Kingdom, of which the just King would be the Prince of
   Peace, Who was meek and lowly in His Advent, Who would speak peace to
   the heathen, and Whose sway would yet extend to earth's utmost bounds.
   Thus much may be said, that if there ever was true picture of the
   Messiah-King and His Kingdom, it is this, and that, if ever Israel was
   to have a Messiah or the world a Saviour, He must be such as described
   in this Prophecy - not merely in the letter, but in the spirit of it.
   And as so often indicated, it was not the letter but the spirit of
   prophecy - and of all prophecy - which the ancient Synagogue, and that
   rightly, saw fulfilled in the Messiah and His Kingdom. Accordingly,
   with singular unanimity the Talmud and the ancient Rabbinic authorities
   have applied this prophecy to the Christ. [5071] Nor was it quoted by
   St. Matthew and St. John in the stiffness and deadness of the letter.
   On the contrary (as so often in Jewish writings, two prophets - Isa.
   lxii. 11, and Zech. ix. 9 - are made to shed their blended light upon
   this Entry of Christ, as exhibiting the reality, of which the prophetic
   vision had been the reflex. Nor yet are the words of the Prophets given
   literally - as modern criticism would have them weighed out in the
   critical balances - either from the Hebrew text, or form the LXX.
   rendering; but their real meaning is given, and they are Targumed' by
   the sacred writers. according to their wont. Yet who that sets the
   prophetic picture by the side of the reality - the description by the
   side of Christ's Entry into Jerusalem - can fail to recognise in the
   one the real fulfilment of the other?

   Another point seems to require comment. We have seen reasons to regard
   the bearing of the disciples as one of surprise, and that, all through
   these last scenes, they seem to have been hurried from event to event.
   But the enthusiasm of the people - their royal welcome of Christ - how
   is it to be explained, and how reconciled with the speedy and terrible
   reaction of His Betrayal and Crucifixion? Yet it is not so difficult to
   understand it; and, if we only keep clear of unconscious exaggeration,
   we shall gain in truth and reasonableness what we lose in dramatic
   effect. It has already been suggested, that the multitude which went to
   meet Jesus must have consisted chiefly of pilgrim-strangers. The
   overwhelming majority of the citizens of Jerusalem were bitterly and
   determinately hostile to Christ. But we know that, even so, the
   Pharisees dreaded to take the final steps against Christ during the
   presence of these pilgrims at the Feast, apprehending a movement in His
   favour. [5072] It proved, indeed, otherwise; for these country-people
   were but ill-informed; they dared not resist the combined authority of
   their own Sanhedrin and of the Romans. Besides, the prejudices of the
   populace, and especially of an Eastern populace, are easily raised, and
   they readily sway from one extreme to the opposite. Lastly, the very
   suddenness and completeness of the blow, which the Jewish authorities
   delivered, would have stunned even those who had deeper knowledge, more
   cohesion, and greater independence than most of them who, on that
   Palm-Sunday, had gone forth from the City.

   Again, as regards their welcome of Christ, deeply significant as it
   was, we must not attach to it deeper meaning than it possessed. Modern
   writers have mostly seen in it the demonstrations of the Feast of
   Tabernacles, [5073] as if the homage of its services had been offered
   to Christ. It would, indeed, have been symbolic of much about Israel if
   they had thus confounded the Second with the First Advent of Christ,
   the Sacrifice of the Passover with the joy of the Feast of Ingathering.
   But, in reality, their conduct bears not that interpretation. It is
   true that these responses from Ps. cxviii., which formed part of what
   was known as the (Egyptian) Hallel, [5074] were chanted by the people
   on the Feast of Tabernacles also, but the Hallel was equally sung with
   responses during the offering of the Passover, at the Paschal Supper,
   and on the Feasts of Pentecost and of the Dedication of the Temple. The
   waving of the palm-branches was the welcome of visitors or kings,
   [5075] and not distinctive of the Feast of Tabernacles. At the latter,
   the worshippers carried, not simple palm-branches, but the Lulabh,
   which consisted of palm, myrtle, and willow branches interwinted.
   Lastly, the words of welcome from Ps. cxviii. were (as already stated)
   those with which on solemn occasions the people also greeted the
   arrival of festive pilgrims, [5076] although, as being offered to
   Christ alone, and as accompanied by such demonstrations, they may have
   implied that they hailed Him as the promised King, and have converted
   His Entry into a triumph in which the people did homage. And, if proof
   were required of the more sober, and, may we not add, rational view
   here advocated, it would be found in this, that not till after His
   Resurrection did even His own disciples understand the significance of
   the whole scene which they had witnessed, and in which they had borne
   such a part.

   The anger and jealousy of the Pharisees understood it better, and
   watched for the opportunity of revenge. But, for the present, on that
   bright spring-day, the weak, excitable, fickle populace streamed before
   Him through the City-gates, through the narrow streets, up the
   Temple-mount. Everywhere the tramp of their feet, and the shout of
   their acclamations brought men, women, and children into the streets
   and on the housetops. The City was moved, and from mouth to mouth the
   question passed among the eager crowd of curious onlookers: Who is He?'
   And the multitude answered - not, this is Israel's Messiah-King, but:
   This is Jesus the Prophet of Nazareth of Galilee.' And so up into the
   Temple!

   He alone was silent and sad among this excited multitude, the marks of
   the tears He had wept over Jerusalem still on His cheek. It is not so,
   that an earthly King enters His City in triumph; not so, that the
   Messiah of Israel's expectation would have gone into His Temple. He
   spake not, but only looked round about upon all things, as if to view
   the field on which He was to suffer and die. And now the shadows of
   evening were creeping up; and, weary and sad, He once more returned
   with the twelve disciples to the shelter and rest of Bethany.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [5040] So notably Keim. Of course, the theory proceeds on the
   assumption that the Discourses reported by St. Luke are spurious.

   [5041] Dean Plumptre on St. Matt. xxi. 5.

   [5042] Siphré, ed. Friedm. p. 55 a, last lines; Sot. 45 a; Tos. Pes.
   viii. 8.

   [5043] Pes. 63 b; 91 a; Menach. 78 b; Babha Mets. 90 a.

   [5044] See also Caspari, Chron. Geogr. Einl. p. 161. The question as to
   the proposed identification (by some) of Bethany with the Beth Hini, or
   Beth Hanioth, where the Sanhedrin (apparently of Sadduccees) sat after
   leaving the Temple and which was destroyed three years before the City,
   must be left here undiscussed.

   [5045] St. Mark and St. Luke.

   [5046] St. Augustine has it, recapitulando dixerunt.

   [5047] St. Matt. xxvi. 6-13; St. Mark xiv. 3-9.

   [5048] Comp. St. Luke xxii. 8.

   [5049] Num. xix. 2; Deut. xxi. 3.

   [5050] St. Mark; comp. also St. Matthew.

   [5051] St. John xii. 12.

   [5052] St. Luke xix. 39; St. John xii. 19.

   [5053] It is surely one of those instances in which the supposed
   authority of MSS. should not be implicitly followed, when in St. Mark
   xi. 3, the R.V. adopts what we must regard as a very jejune gloss: and
   straightway He [viz. Christ] will send him back hither' - as if the
   disciples had obtained the colt by pledging the Master to its immediate
   restoration. The gloss is the more inapt as it does not occur in the
   parallel passages in St. Matthew and St. Luke.

   [5054] They may have awaited in Bethany the return of the two, but the
   succession followed in the text seems to me by far the most probable.

   [5055] The quotations are from the well-known and classical passage in
   Dean Stanley's Sinai and Palestine, pp. 189 &c.

   [5056] St. John xii. 16.

   [5057] St. Luke xix. 37, 38.

   [5058] St. John xii. 18.

   [5059] ver. 17.

   [5060] St. Luke.

   [5061] There can be no question that Osann represents {hebrew} but
   probably in an abbreviated form of pronunciation {hebrew} (comp.
   Siegfried in Hilgenfeld's Zeitsch. f. wissensch. Theol. for 1884, p.
   385).

   [5062] Ps. cxviii. 25, 26.

   [5063] As will be remembered, it formed the last Psalm in what was
   called the Hallel (Ps. cxiii.-cxviii). For the mode in which, and the
   occasions on which it was chanted, see Temple, &c.' pp. 191-193. The
   remarks of Godet on the subject (Comm. on St. John xii.) are not
   accurate.

   [5064] ver. 29.

   [5065] Midr. on Ps. cxviii., ed. Warsh., pp. 85 b, last 3 lines, and p.
   86 a.

   [5066] A common Jewish expression, {hebrew}, Babha Mez. 85 a, line 3
   from top, or {hebrew} Ber. 58 a, about the middle.

   [5067] St. Luke.

   [5068] The expression: stones bearing witness when sin has been
   committed, is not uncommon in Jewish writings. See Taan. 11 a; Chag. 16
   a.

   [5069] Jos. War v. 6. 2; 12. 2.

   [5070] Zech. ix. 9.

   [5071] Ber. 56 b; Sanh. 98 a; Pirké de R. El. 31; Ber. R. 75; 98; 99;
   Deb. R. 4; Midr. on Cant. i.4; Midr. on Cant. i. 4; Midr. on Eccles i.
   9; Midr. Shemuel 14.

   [5072] St. Matt. xxvi. 3-6; St. Mark xiv. 2; St. Luke xxii 2.

   [5073] This after Lightfoot. Wünsche (Erlaut. d. Evang. p. 241) goes so
   far as to put this alternative, that either the Evangelists confounded
   the Passover with the Feast of the Tabernacles, or that they purposely
   transferred to the Passover a ceremony of the Feast of Tabernacles!

   [5074] Ps. cxiii.-cxviii.

   [5075] Such were, and even now are, common demonstrations in the East,
   to welcome a king, a conqueror, or a deliverer. For a large number of
   heathen and Jewish instances of the same time, comp. Wetstein, ad loc.
   (i. pp. 460, 461).

   [5076] I am aware, that so great an authority as Professor Delitzsch
   calls this in question (Zeitschr. für Luther. Theol. for 1855, p. 653).
   But the testimony of the Midrash is against him. Delitzsch regards it
   as the shout of the Feast of Tabernacles. But how should that have been
   raised before the Feast of Passover? Again, it does not seem reasonable
   to suppose, that the multitude had with full consciousness proclaimed
   Jesus as the Messiah, and intended to celebrate there and then the
   fulfilment of the typical meaning of the Feast of Tabernacles.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER II.
THE SECOND DAY IN PASSION-WEEK - THE BARREN FIG-TREE - THE CLEANSING OF THE
TEMPLE - THE HOSANNA OF THE CHILDREN

   (St. Matt. xxi. 12-22; St. Mark xi. 15-26; St. Luke xix. 45-48.)

   How the King of Israel spent the night after the triumphal Entry into
   His City and Temple, we may venture reverently to infer. His royal
   banquet would be fellowship with the disciples. We know how often His
   nights had been spent in lonely prayer, [5077] and surely it is not too
   bold to associate such thoughts with the first night in Passion week.
   Thus, also, we can most readily account for that exhaustion and
   faintness of hunger, which next morning made Him seek fruit on the
   fig-tree on His way to the City.

   It was very early [5078] on the morning of the second day in
   Passion-week (Monday), when Jesus, with his disciples, left Bethany. In
   the fresh, crisp, spring air, after the exhaustion of that night, He
   hungered.' By the roadside, as so often in the East, a solitary tree
   [5079] grew in the rocky soil. It must have stood on an eminence, where
   it caught the sunshine and warmth, for He saw it afar off,' [5080] and
   though spring had but lately wooed nature into life, it stood out, with
   its wide-spreading mantle of green, against the sky. It was not the
   season of figs,' but the tree, covered with leaves, attacted His
   attention. It might have been, that they hid some of the fruit which
   hung through the winter, or else the springing fruits of the new crop.
   For it is a well-known fact, that in Palestine the fruit appears before
   the leaves,' [5081] and that this fig-tree, whether from its exposure
   or soil, was precocious, is evident from the fact that it was in leaf,
   which is quite unusual at that season on the Mount of Olives, [5082]
   The old fruit would, of course, have been edible, and in regard to the
   unripe fruit we have the distinct evidence of the Mishnah, [5083]
   confirmed by the Talmud, [5084] that the unripe fruit was eaten, so
   soon as it began to assume a red colour - as it is expressed, in the
   field, with bread,' or, as we understand it, by those whom hunger
   overtook in the fields, whether working or travelling. But in the
   present case there was neither old nor new fruit, but leaves only.' It
   was evidently a barren fig-tree, cumbering the ground, and to be hewn
   down. Our mind almost instinctively reverts to the Parable of the
   Barren Fig-tree, which He had so lately spoken. [5085] To Him, Who but
   yesterday had wept over the Jerusalem that knew not the day of its
   visitation, and over which the sharp axe of judgment was already
   lifted, this fig-tree, with its luxuriant mantle of leaves, must have
   recalled, with pictorial vividness, the scene of the previous day.
   Israel was that barren fig-tree; and the leaves only covered their
   nakedness, as erst they had that of our first parents after their Fall.
   And the judgment, symbolically spoken in the Parable, must be
   symbolically executed in this leafy fig-tree, barren when searched for
   fruit by the Master. It seems almost an inward necessity, not only
   symbolically but really also, that Christ's Word should have laid it
   low. We cannot conceive that any other should have eaten of it after
   the hungering Christ had in vain sought fruit thereon. We cannot
   conceive that anything should resist Christ, and not be swept away. We
   cannot conceive, that the reality of what He had taught should not,
   when occasion came, be visibly placed before the eyes of the disciples.
   Lastly, we seem to feel (with Bengel) that, as always, the
   manifestation of His true Humanity, in hunger, should be accompanied by
   that of His Divinity, in the power of His Word of judgment. [5086]

   With St. Matthew, who, for the sake of continuity, relates this
   incident after the events of that day (the Monday) and immediately
   before those of the next, [5087] we anticipate what was only witnessed
   on the morrow. [5088] As St. Matthew has it: on Christ's Word the
   fig-tree immediately withered away. But according to the more detailed
   account of St. Mark, it was only next morning, when they again passed
   by, that they noticed the fig-tree had withered from its very roots.
   The spectacle attracted their attention, and vividly recalled the Words
   of Christ, to which, on the previous day, they had, perhaps, scarcely
   attached sufficient importance. And it was the suddenness and
   completeness of the judgment that had been denounced, which now struck
   Peter, rather than its symbolic meaning. It was rather the Miracle than
   its moral and spiritual import - the storm and earthquake rather than
   the still small Voice - which impressed the disciples. Besides, the
   words of Peter are at least capable of this interpretation, that the
   fig-tree had withered in consequence of, rather than by the Word of
   Christ. But He ever leads His own from mere wonderment at the
   Miraculous up to that which is higher. [5089] His answer now combined
   all that they needed to learn. It pointed to the typical lesson of what
   had taken place: the need of realising, simple faith, the absence of
   which was the cause of Israel's leafy barrenness, and which, if present
   and active, could accomplish all, however impossible it might seem by
   outward means. [5090] And yet it was only to have faith in God;' such
   faith as becomes those who know God; a faith in God, which seeks not
   and has not its foundation in anything outward, but rests on Him alone.
   To one who shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that what he
   saith cometh to pass, it shall be to him.' [5091] And this general
   principle of the Kingdom, which to the devout and reverent believer
   needs neither explanation nor limitation, received its further
   application, specially to the Apostles in their coming need: Therefore
   I say unto you, whatsoever things, praying, ye ask for, believe that ye
   have received them [not, in the counsel of God, [5092] but actually, in
   answer to the prayer of faith], and it shall be to you.'

   These two things follow: faith gives absolute power in prayer, but it
   is also its moral condition. None other than this is faith; and none
   other than faith - absolute, simple, trustful - gives glory to God, or
   has the promise. This is, so to speak, the New Testament application of
   the first Table of the Law, summed up in the Thou shalt love the Lord
   thy God.' But there is yet another moral condition of prayer closely
   connected with the first - a New Testament application of the second
   Table of the Law, summed up in the Thou shalt love thy neighbour as
   thyself.' If the first moral condition was God-ward, the second is
   man-ward; if the first bound us to faith, the second binds us to
   charity, while hope, the expectancy of answered prayer, is the link
   connecting the two. Prayer, unlimited in its possibilities, stands
   midway between heaven and earth; with one hand it reaches up to heaven,
   with the other down to earth; in it, faith prepares to receive, what
   charity is ready to dispense. He who so prays believes in God and loves
   man; such prayer is not selfish, self-seeking, self-conscious; least of
   all, is it compatible with mindfulness of wrongs, or an unforgiving
   spirit. This, then, is the second condition of prayer, and not only of
   such all-prevailing prayer, but even of personal acceptance in prayer.
   We can, therefore, have no doubt that St. Mark correctly reports in
   this connection this as the condition which the Lord attaches to
   acceptance, that we previously put away all uncharitableness. [5093]
   [5094] We remember, that the promise had a special application to the
   Apostles and early disciples; we also remember, how difficult to them
   was the thought of full forgiveness of offenders and persecutors;
   [5095] and again, how great the temptation to avenge wrongs and to
   wield miraculous power in the vindication of their authority. [5096] In
   these circumstances Peter and his fellow-disciples, when assured of the
   unlimited power of the prayer of faith, required all the more to be
   both reminded and warned of this as its second moral condition: the
   need of hearty forgiveness, if they had aught against any.

   From this digression we return to the events of that second day in
   Passion-week (the Monday), which began with the symbolic judgment on
   the leafy, barren fig-tree. The same symbolism of judgment was to be
   immediately set forth still more clearly, and that in the Temple
   itself. On the previous afternoon, when Christ had come to it, the
   services were probably over, and the Sanctuary comparatively empty of
   worshippers and of those who there carried on their traffic. When
   treating of the first cleansing of the Temple, at the beginning of
   Christ's Ministry, sufficient has been said to explain the character
   and mode of that nefarious traffic, the profits of which went to the
   leaders of the priesthood, as also how popular indignation was roused
   alike against this trade and the traders. We need not here recall the
   words of Christ; Jewish authorities sufficiently describe, in even
   stronger terms, this transformation of the House of Prayer' into a den
   of robbers.' [5097] If, when beginning to do the business' of His
   Father, and for the first time publicly presenting Himself with
   Messianic claim, it was fitting He should take such authority, and
   first cleanse the Temple' of the nefarious intruders who, under the
   guise of being God's chief priests, made His House one of traffic, much
   more was this appropriate now, at the close of His Work, when, as King,
   He had entered His City, and publicly claimed authority. At the first
   it had been for teaching and warning, now it was in symbolic judgment;
   what and as He then began, that and so He now finished. Accordingly, as
   we compare the words, and even some of the acts, of the first
   cleansing' with those accompanying and explaining the second, we find
   the latter, we shall not say, much more severe, but bearing a different
   character - that of final judicial sentence. [5098]

   Nor did the Temple-authorities now, as on the former occasion, seek to
   raise the populace against Him, or challenge His authority by demanding
   the warrant of a sign.' The contest had reached quite another stage.
   They heard what He said in their condemnation, and with bitter hatred
   in their hearts sought for some means to destroy Him. But fear of the
   people restrained their violence. For, marvellous indeed was the power
   which He wielded. With rapt attention the people hung entranced on his
   lips, [5099] astonished' at those new and blessed truths which dropped
   from them. All was so other than it had been! By His authority the
   Temple was cleansed of the unholy, thievish traffic which a corrupt
   priesthood carried on, and so, for the time, restored to the solemn
   Service of God; and that purified House now became the scene of
   Christ's teaching, when He spake those words of blessed truth and of
   comfort concerning the Father - thus truly realising the prophetic
   promise of a House of Prayer for all the nations.' [5100] And as those
   traffickers were driven from the Temple, and He spake, there flocked in
   from porches and Temple-Mount the poor sufferers - the blind and the
   lame - to get healing to body and soul. It was truly spring-time in
   that Temple, and the boys that gathered about their fathers and looked
   in turn from their faces of rapt wonderment and enthusiasm to the
   Godlike Face of the Christ, and then on those healed sufferers, took up
   the echoes of the welcome at His entrance into Jerusalem - in their
   simplicity understanding and applying them better - as they burst into
   Hosanna to the Son of David.'

   It rang through the courts and porches of the Temple, this Children's
   Hosanna. They heard it, whom the wonders He had spoken and done, so far
   from leading to repentance and faith, had only filled with indignation.
   Once more in their impotent anger they sought, as the Pharisees had
   done on the day of His Entry, by a hypocritical appeal to His reverence
   for God, not only to mislead, and so to use His very love of the truth
   against the truth, but to betray Him into silencing those Children's
   Voices. But the undimmed mirror of His soul only reflected the light.
   [5101] These Children's Voices were Angels' Echoes, echoes of the
   far-off praises of heaven, which children's souls had caught and
   children's lips welled forth. Not from the great, the wise, nor the
   learned, but out of the mouth of babes and sucklings' has He perfected
   praise.' [5102] And this, also, is the Music of the Gospel.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [5077] St. Mark i. 35; St. Luke v.16; St. Matt. xiv. 23; St. Luke vi.
   12; ix. 28.

   [5078] pro, used of the last night-watch in St. Mark i. 35.

   [5079] dn sukn min, a single tree.

   [5080] St. Mark.

   [5081] Tristram, Nat. Hist. of the Bible, p. 352.

   [5082] On the fig-tree generally, see the remarks on the Parable of the
   Barren Fig-tree, Book IV. ch. xvi.

   [5083] Shebh. iv. 7.

   [5084] Jer. Shebh. 35 b, last lines.

   [5085] St. Luke xiii. 6-9.

   [5086] Comp. St. John xi. 35-44.

   [5087] St. Matt. xxi. 18. 22.

   [5088] St. Mark xi. 20.

   [5089] Bengel.

   [5090] We remind the reader, that the expression rooting up mountains'
   is in common Rabbinic use as a hyperbole for doing the impossible or
   the incredible. For the former, see Babha B. 3 b ({hebrew}); for the
   latter ({hebrew}) Ber. 64 a; Sanh. 24 a; Horay. 14 a.

   [5091] The other words are spurious.

   [5092] So Meyer.

   [5093] St. Mark xi. 25.

   [5094] Ver. 26 is in all probability a spurious addition.

   [5095] St. Matt. xviii. 21, 22.

   [5096] St. Luke ix. 52-56.

   [5097] See the full account in Book III. ch. v.

   [5098] The grounds on which this second has to be distinguished from
   the first cleansing of the Temple, which is recorded only by St. John
   (ii. 13-23) have been explained on a previous occasion. They are stated
   in most commentaries, though perhaps not always satisfactorily. But
   intelligent readers can have no difficulty in gathering them for
   themselves. The difficulty lies not in the two purifications, nor yet
   in the silence of the Synoptists as to the first, since the early
   Jerusalem Ministry lay not within the scope of their narratives, but in
   the silence of the Fourth Gospel in regard to the second purification.
   But here we would remark that, less than any of the others, is the
   Fourth Gospel a history or successive narration; but, if we may so say,
   historical dogmatics - the Logos in the historical manifestation of His
   Person and Work. If so, the first included the second purification of
   the Temple. Again, to have introduced it, or the cursing of the
   fig-tree, would have been to break up the course, and mar the symmetry
   of the narrative (St. John xii.), which presents in successive and
   deepening shading the attestation of the Christ: at the Supper of
   Bethany, on His Entry into Jerusalem, before the Greeks in the Temple,
   by the Voice from Heaven before His gainsayers, and to his disciples.

   [5099] St. Luke.

   [5100] St. Mark.

   [5101] We may here note, once for all, that the manner of answering
   used by Christ, that of answering a question by putting another in
   which the answer appeared with irresistible force. was very common
   among the Jews ({hebrew}). Another mode was by an allegory - whether of
   word or action.

   [5102] So in the LXX., rightly giving the sense; in the original
   strength.' It is perhaps one of the grandest of the grand contrasts in
   the Psalms: God opposing and appeasing His enemies, not by a display of
   power, as they understand it, but by the mouth of young boys [such is
   the proper rendering] and sucklings. The Eternal of Hosts has these for
   His armourbearers, and needs none other. The ancient Synagogue,
   somewhat realistically, yet with a basis of higher truth, declared (in
   the Haggadah), that at the Red Sea little children, even the babes in
   the womb, had joined in Israel's song of triumph, so fulfilling this
   saying of the Psalmist.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER III.
THE THIRD DAY IN PASSION-WEEK - THE EVENTS OF THAT DAY - THE QUESTION OF
CHRIST'S AUTHORITY - THE QUESTION OF TRIBUTE TO CÆSAR - THE WIDOW'S FARTHING -
THE GREEKS WHO SOUGHT TO SEE JESUS - SUMMARY AND RETROSPECT OF THE PUBLIC
MINISTRY OF CHRIST

   (St. Matthew xxi. 23-27; St. Mark xi. 27-33; St. Luke xx. 1-8; St.
   Matt. xxii. 15-22; St. Mark xii. 13-17; St. Luke xx. 20-26; St. Matt.
   xxii. 41-46; St. Luke xxi. 1-4; St. John xii. 20-50.)

   THE record of this third day is so crowded, the actors introduced on
   the scene are so many, the occurrences so varied, and the transitions
   so rapid, that it is even more than usually difficult to arrange all in
   chronological order. Nor need we wonder at this, when we remember that
   this was, so to speak, Christ's last working-day - the last, of His
   public Mission to Israel, so far as its active part was concerned; the
   last day in the Temple; the last, of teaching and warning to Pharisees
   and Sadducees; the last, of his call to national repentance.

   That what follows must be included in one day, appears from the
   circumstance that its beginning is expressly mentioned by St. Mark
   [5103] in connection with the notice of the withering of the fig-tree,
   while its close is not only indicated in the last words of Christ's
   Discourses, as reported by the Synoptists, [5104] but the beginning of
   another day is afterwards equally clearly marked. [5105]

   Considering the multiplicity of occurrences, it will be better to group
   them together, rather than follow the exact order of their succession.
   Accordingly, this chapter will be devoted to the events of the third
   day in Passion Week.

   1. As usually, the day commenced [5106] with teaching in the Temple.
   [5107] We gather this from the expression: as He was walking,' [5108]
   viz., in one of the Porches, where, as we know considerable freedom of
   meeting, conversing, or even teaching, was allowed. It will be
   remembered, that on the previous day the authorities had been afraid to
   interfere with Him. In silence they had witnessed, with impotent rage,
   the expulsion of their traffic-mongers; in silence they had listened to
   His teaching, and seen His miracles. Not till the Hosanna of the little
   boys - perhaps those children of the Levites who acted as choristers in
   the Temple [5109] - wakened them from the stupor of their fears, had
   they ventured on a feeble remonstrance, in the forlorn hope that He
   might be induced to conciliate them. But with the night and morning
   other counsels had come. Besides, the circumstances were somewhat
   different. It was early morning, the hearers were new, and the wondrous
   influence of His Words had not yet bent them to His Will. From the
   formal manner in which the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders
   are introduced, [5110] and from the circumstance that they so met
   Christ immediately on His entry into the Temple, we can scarcely doubt
   that a meeting, although informal, [5111] of the authorities had been
   held to concert measures against the growing danger. Yet, even so,
   cowardice as well as cunning marked their procedure. They dared not
   directly oppose Him, but endeavoured, by attacking Him on the one point
   where he seemed to lay Himself open to it, to arrogate to themselves
   the appearance of strict legality, and so to turn popular feeling
   against Him.

   For, there was no principle more firmly established by universal
   consent than that authoritative teaching [5112] required previous
   authorisation. Indeed, this logically followed from the principle of
   Rabbinism. All teaching must be authoritative, since it was traditional
   - approved by authority, and handed down from teacher to disciple. The
   highest honour of a scholar was, that he was like a well-plastered
   cistern, from which not a drop had leaked of what had been poured into
   it. The ultimate appeal in cases of discussion was always to some great
   authority, whether an individual Teacher or a Decree by the Sanhedrin.
   In this manner had the great Hillel first vindicated his claim to be
   the Teacher of his time and to decide the disputes then pending. And,
   to decide differently from authority, was either the mark of ignorant
   assumption or the outcome of daring rebellion, in either case to be
   visited with the ban.' And this was at least one aspect of the
   controversy as between the chief authorities and Jesus. No one would
   have thought of interfering with a mere Haggadist - a popular
   expositor, preacher, or teller of legends. But authoritatively to
   teach, required other warrant. In fact there was regular ordination
   (Semikhah) to the office of Rabbi, Elder, and Judge, for the three
   functions were combined in one. According to the Mishnah, the
   disciples' sat before the Sanhedrin in three rows, the members of the
   Sanhedrin being recruited successively from the front-rank of the
   Scholars. [5113] At first the practice is said to have been for every
   Rabbi to accredit his own disciples. But afterwards this right was
   transferred to the Sanhedrin, with the proviso that this body might not
   ordain without the consent of its Chief, though the latter might do so
   without consent of the Sanhedrin. [5114] But this privilege was
   afterwards withdrawn on account of abuses. Although we have not any
   description of the earliest mode of ordination, the very name -
   Semikhah - implies the imposition of hands. Again, in the oldest
   record, reaching up, no doubt, to the time of Christ, the presence of
   at least three ordained persons was required for ordination. [5115] At
   a later period, the presence of an ordained Rabbi, with the
   assessorship of two others, even if unordained, was deemed sufficient.
   [5116] In the course of time certain formalities were added. The person
   to be ordained had to deliver a Discourse; hymns and poems were
   recited; the title Rabbi' was formally bestowed on the candidate, and
   authority given him to teach and to act as Judge [to bind and loose, to
   declare guilty or free]. Nay, there seem to have been even different
   orders, according to the authority bestowed on the person ordained. The
   formula in bestowing full orders was: Let him teach; let him teach; let
   him judge; let him decide on questions of first-born; [5117] let him
   decide; let him judge!' At one time it was held that ordination could
   only take place in the Holy Land. Those who went abroad took with them
   their letters of orders.' [5118]

   At whatever periods some of these practices may have been introduced,
   it is at least certain that, at the time of our Lord, no one would have
   ventured authoritatively to teach without proper Rabbinic
   authorisation. The question, therefore, with which the Jewish
   authorities met Christ, while teaching, was one which had a very real
   meaning, and appealed to the habits and feelings of the people who
   listened to Jesus. Otherwise, also, it was cunningly framed. For, it
   did not merely challenge Him for teaching, but also asked for His
   authority in what He did, referring not only to His Work generally,
   but, perhaps, especially to what had happened on the previous day. They
   were not there to oppose Him; but, when a man did as He had done in the
   Temple, it was their duty to verify his credentials. Finally, the
   alternative question reported by St. Mark: or' - if Thou hast not
   proper Rabbinic commission - who gave Thee this authority to do these
   things?' seems clearly to point to their contention, that the power
   which Jesus wielded was delegated to Him by none other than Beelzebul.

   The point in our Lord's reply seems to have been strangely overlooked
   by commentators. [5119] As His words are generally understood, they
   would have amounted only to silencing His questioners - and that, in a
   manner which would, under ordinary circumstances, be scarcely regarded
   as either fair or ingenuous. It would have been simply to turn the
   question against themselves, and so in turn to raise popular prejudice.
   But the Lord's words meant quite other. He did answer their question,
   though He also exposed the cunning and cowardice which prompted it. To
   the challenge for His authority, and the dark hint about Satanic
   agency, He replied by an appeal to the Baptist. He had borne full
   witness to the Mission of Christ from the Father, and all men counted
   John, that he was a prophet indeed.' Were they satisfied? What was
   their view of the Baptism in preparation for the Coming of Christ? No?
   They would not, or could not answer! If they said the Baptist was a
   prophet, this implied not only the authorisation of the Mission of
   Jesus, but the call to believe on Him. On the other hand, they were
   afraid publicly to disown John! And so their cunning and cowardice
   stood out self-condemned, when they pleaded ignorance - a plea so
   grossly and manifestly dishonest, that Christ, having given what all
   must have felt to be a complete answer, could refuse further discussion
   with them on this point.

   2. Foiled in their endeavor to involve Him with the ecclesiastical,
   they next attempted the much more dangerous device of bringing Him into
   collision with the civil authorities. Remembering the ever watchful
   jealousy of Rome, the reckless tyranny of Pilate, and the low artifices
   of Herod, who was at that time in Jerusalem, [5120] we instinctively
   feel, how even the slightest compromise on the part of Jesus in regard
   to the authority of Cæsar would have been absolutely fatal. If it could
   have been proved, on undeniable testimony, that Jesus had declared
   Himself on the side of, or even encouraged, the so-called Nationalist'
   party, He would quickly perished, like Judas of Galilee. [5121] The
   Jewish leaders would thus have readily accomplished their object, and
   its unpopularity have recoiled only on the hated Roman power. How great
   the danger was which threatened Jesus, may be gathered from this, that,
   despite His clear answer, the charge that He prevented the nation,
   forbidding to give tribute to Cæsar, was actually among those brought
   against Him before Pilate. [5122]

   The plot, for such it was, [5123] was most cunningly concocted. The
   object was to spy' out His inmost thoughts, [5124] and, if possible,
   entangle'  Him in His talk. [5125] For this purpose it was not the old
   Pharisees, whom He knew and would have distrusted, who came, but some
   of their disciples - apparently fresh, earnest, zealous, conscientious
   men. With them had combined certain of the Herodians' - of course, not
   a sect nor religious school, but a political party at the time. We know
   comparatively little of the deeper political movements in Judæa, only
   so much as it has suited Josephus to record. But we cannot be greatly
   mistaken in regarding the Herodians as a party which honestly accepted
   the House of Herod as occupants of the Jewish throne. Differing from
   the extreme section of the Pharisees, who hated Herod, and from the
   Nationalists,' it might have been a middle or moderate Jewish party -
   semi-Roman and semi-Nationalist. We know that it was the ambition of
   Herod Antipas again to unite under his sway of the whole of Palestine;
   but we know not what intrigues may have been carried on for that
   purpose, alike with the Pharisees and the Romans. Nor is it the first
   time in this history, that we find the Pharisees and the Herodians
   combined. [5126] Herod may, indeed, have been unwilling to incur the
   unpopularity of personally proceeding against the Great Prophet of
   Nazareth, expecially as he must have had so keen a remembrance of what
   the murder of John had cost him. Perhaps he would fain, if he could,
   have made use of Him, and played Him off as the popular Messiah against
   the popular leaders. But, as matters had gone, he must have been
   anxious to rid himself of what might be a formidable rival, while, at
   the same time, his party would be glad to join with the Pharisees in
   what would secure their gratitude and allegiance. Such, or similar, may
   have been the motives which brought about this strange alliance of
   Pharisees and Herodians.

   Feigning themselves just men, they now came to Jesus with honeyed
   words, intended to disarm His suspicions, but, by an appeal to His
   fearlessness and singleness of moral purpose, to induce Him to commit
   Himself without reserve. Was it lawful for them to give tribute unto
   Cæsar, or not? were they to pay the capitation-tax [5127] of one
   drachm, or to refuse it? We know how later Judaism would have answered
   such a question. It lays down the principle, that the right of coinage
   implies the authority of levying taxes, and indeed constitutes such
   evidence of de facto government as to make it duty absolutely to submit
   to it. [5128] So much was this felt, that the Maccabees, and, in the
   last Jewish war, Bar Kokhabh, the false Messiah, issued a coinage
   dating from the liberation of Jerusalem. We cannot therefore doubt,
   that this principle about coinage, taxation, and government was
   generally accepted in Judæa. On the other hand, there was a strong
   party in the land; with which, not only politically but religiously,
   many of the noblest spirits would sympathise, which maintained, that to
   pay the tribute-money to Cæsar was virtually to own his royal
   authority, and so to disown that of Jehovah, Who alone was Israel's
   King. They would argue, that all the miseries of the land and people
   were due to this national unfaithfulness. Indeed, this was the
   fundamental principle of the Nationalist movement. History has recorded
   many similar movements, in which strong political feelings have been
   strangely blended with religious fanaticism, and which have numbered in
   their ranks, together with unscrupulous partisans, not a few who were
   sincere patriots or earnest religionists. It has been suggested in a
   former part of this book, that the Nationalist movement may have had an
   important preparatory bearing on some of the earlier followers of
   Jesus, perhaps at the beginning of their inquiries, just as, in the
   West, Alexandrian philosophy moved to many a preparation for
   Christianity. [5129] At any rate, the scruple expressed by these men
   would, if genuine, have called forth sympathy. [5130] But what was the
   alternative here presented to Christ? To have said No, would have been
   to command rebellion; to have said simply Yes, would have been to give
   a painful shock to keep feeling, and, in a sense, in the eyes of the
   people, the lie to His own claim of being Israel's Messiah-King!

   But the Lord escaped from this temptation' - because, being true, it
   was no real temptation to Him. [5131] Their knavery and hypocrisy He
   immediately perceived and exposed, in this also responding to their
   appeal of being true.' Once more and emphatically must we disclaim the
   idea that Christ's was rather an evasion of the question than a reply.
   It was a very real rather, when pointing to the image and inscription
   on the coin, [5132] for which He had called, He said, What is Cæsar's
   render to Cæsar, and what is God's to God.' [5133] It did far more than
   rebuke their hypocrisy and presumption; it answered not only that
   question of theirs to all earnest men of that time, as it would present
   itself to their minds, but it settles to all time and for all
   circumstances the principle underlying it. Christ's Kingdom is not of
   this world; a true Theocracy is not inconsistent with submission to the
   secular power in things that are really its own; politics and religion
   neither include, nor yet exclude, each other; they are, side by side,
   in different domains. The State is Divinely sanctioned, and religion is
   Divinely sanctioned - and both are equally the ordinance of God. On
   this principle did Apostolic authority regulate the relations between
   Church and State, even when the latter was heathen. The question about
   the limits of either province has been hotly discussed by sectarians on
   either side, who have claimed the saying of Christ in support of one or
   the opposite extreme which they have advocated. And yet, to the simple
   searcher after duty, it seems not so difficult to see the distinction,
   if only we succeed in purging ourselves of logical refinements and
   strained references.

   It was an answer not only most truthful, but of marvellous beauty and
   depth. It elevated the controversy into quite another sphere, where
   there was no conflict between what was due to God and to man - indeed,
   no conflict at all, but Divine harmony and peace. Nor did it speak
   harshly of the Nationalist aspirations, nor yet plead the cause of
   Rome. It said not whether the rule of Rome was right or should be
   permanent - but only what all must have felt to be Divine. And so they,
   who had come to entangle' Him, went away,' not convinced nor converted,
   but marvelling exceedingly. [5134]

   3. Passing for the present from the cavils of the Sadducees and the
   gainslaying of the Scribes, we come unexpectedly on one of those sweet
   pictures - a historical miniature, as it is presented to us - which
   affords real relief to the eye amidst the glare all around. [5135] From
   the bitter malice of His enemies and the predicted judgment upon them,
   we turn to the silent worship of her who gave her all, and to the words
   with which Jesus owned it, all unknown to her. It comes to us the more
   welcome, that it exhibits in deed what Christ had said to those
   hypocrites who had discussed it, whether the tribute given to Cæsar was
   not robbing God of what was His. Truly here was one, who, in the
   simplicity of her humble worship, gave to the Lord what was His!

   Weary with the contention, the Master had left those to whom He had
   spoken in the Porches, and, while the crowd wrangled about His Words or
   His Person, had ascended the flight of steps which led from the
   Terrace' into the Temple-building. From these steps - whether those
   leading up to the Beautiful Gate,' or one of the side gates - He could
   gain full view into The Court of the Women,' into which they opened. On
   these steps, or within the gate (for in no other place was it lawful),
   He sat Him down, watching the multitude. The time of Sacrifice was
   past, and those who still lingered had remained for private devotion,
   for private sacrifices, or to pay their vows and offerings. Although
   the topography of the Temple, especially of this part of it, is not
   without its difficulties, we know that under the colonnades, which
   surrounded the Court of the Women,' but still left in the middle room
   for more than 15,000 worshippers, provision was made for receiving
   religious and charitable shaped boxes (Shopharoth); somewhere here also
   we must locate two chambers: [5136] that of the silent,' for gifts to
   be distributed in secret to the children of the pious poor, and that
   where votive vessels were deposited. Perhaps there was here also a
   special chamber for offerings. [5137] These trumpets' bore each
   inscriptions, marking the objects of contribution - whether to make up
   for past neglect, to pay for certain sacrifices, to provide incense,
   wood, or for other gifts.

   As they passed to this or that treasury-box, it must have been a study
   of deep interest, especially on that day, to watch the givers. Some
   might come with appearance of self-righteousness, some even with
   ostentation, some as cheerfully performing a happy duty. Many that were
   rich cast in much' - yes, very much, for such was the tendency that (as
   already stated) a law had to be enacted, forbidding the gift of the
   Temple of more than a certain proportion of one's possessions. And the
   amount of such contributions may be inferred by recalling the
   circumstances, that, at the time of Pompey and Crassus, the
   Temple-Treasury, after having lavishly defrayed every possible
   expenditure, contained in money nearly half a million, and precious
   vessels to the value of nearly two millions sterling. [5138]

   And as Jesus so sat on these steps, looking out on the ever-shifting
   panorama, His gaze was riveted by a solitary figure. The simple words
   of St. Mark sketch a story of singular pathos. It was one pauper
   widow.' We can see her coming alone, as if ashamed to mingle with the
   crowd of rich givers; ashamed to have her offering seen; ashamed,
   perhaps, to bring it; a widow,' in the garb of a desolate mourner; her
   condition, appearance, and bearing that of a pauper.' He observed her
   closely and read her truly. She held in her hand only the smallest
   coins, two Perutahs,' and it should be known that it was not lawful to
   contribute a less amount. [5139] Together these two Perutahs made a
   guadrans, which was the ninety-sixth part of a denar, itself of the
   value of about sevenpence. But it was all her living' (bos), perhaps
   all that she had been able to save out of her scanty housekeeping; more
   probably, all that she had to live upon for that day and till she
   wrought for more. And of this she now made humble offering unto God. He
   spake not to her words of encouragement, for she walked by faith; He
   offered not promise of return, for her reward was in heaven. She knew
   not that any had seen it - for the knowledge of eyes turned on her,
   even His, would have flushed with shame the pure cheek of her love; and
   any word, conscious notice, or promise would have married and turned
   aside the rising incense of her sacrifice. [5140] But to all time has
   it remained in the Church, like the perfume of Mary's alabaster that
   filled the house, this deed of self-denying sacrifice. More, far more,
   than the great gifts of their superfluity,' which the rich cast in,
   was, and is to all time, the gift of absolute self-surrender and
   sacrifice, tremblingly offered by the solitary mourner. And though He
   spake not to her, yet the sunshine of his words must have fallen into
   the dark desolateness of her heart; and, though perhaps she knew not
   why, it must have been a happy day, a day of rich feast in the heart,
   that when she gave up her whole living' unto God. And so, perhaps, is
   every sacrifice for God all the more blessed, when we know not of its
   blessedness.

   Would that to all time its lesson had been cherished, not
   theoretically, but practically, by the Church! How much richer would
   have been her treasury:' twice blessed in gift and givers. But so is
   not legend written. If it had been a story invented for a purpose or
   adorned with the tinsel of embellishment, the Saviour and the widow
   would not have so parted - to meet and to speak not on earth, but in
   heaven. She would have worshipped, and He spoken or done some great
   thing. Their silence was a tryst for heaven.

   4. One other event of solemn joyous import remains to be recorded on
   that day. [5141] But so closely is it connected with what the Lord
   afterwards spoke, that the two cannot be separated. It is narrated only
   by St. John, who, as before explained, [5142] tells it as one of a
   series of progressive manifestations of the Christ: first in His Entry
   into the City, and then in the Temple - successively, to the Greeks, by
   the Voice from Heaven, and before the people.

   Precious as each part and verse here is, when taken by itself, there is
   some difficulty in combining them , and in showing their connection,
   and its meaning. But here we ought not to forget, that we have, in the
   Gospel-narrative, only the briefest account - as it were, headings,
   summaries, outlines, rather than a report. Nor do we know the
   surrounding circumstances. The words which Christ spoke after the
   request of the Greeks to be admitted to His Presence may bear some
   special reference also to the state of the disciples, and their
   unreadiness to enter into and share His predicted sufferings. And this
   may again be connected with Christ's prediction and Discourse about the
   last things.' [5143] For the position of the narrative in St. John's
   Gospel seems to imply that it was the last event of the day - nay, the
   conclusion of Christ's public Ministry. If this be so, words and
   admonitions, otherwise somewhat mysterious in their connection, would
   acquire a new meaning.

   It was then, as we suppose, the evening of a long weary day of
   teaching. As the sun had been hastening towards its setting in red, He
   had spoken of that other sun-setting, with the sky all aglow in
   judgement, and of the darkness that was to follow - but also of the
   better Light would arise in it. And in those Temple-porches they had
   been hearing Him - seeing Him in His wonder-working yesterday, hearing
   Him in His wonder-speaking that day - those men of other tongues.' They
   were Proselytes,' Greeks by birth, who had groped their way to the
   proch of Judaism, just as the first streaks of light were falling
   within upon his altar. They must have been stirred in their inmost
   being; felt, that it was just for such as they, and to them that He
   spoke; that this was what in the Old Testament they had guessed,
   anticipated, dimly hoped for, if they had not seen it - its grand
   faith, its grander hope, its grandest reality. Not one by one, and
   almost by stealth, were they thenceforth to come to the gate; but the
   portals were to be flung wide open, and as the golden light streamed
   out upon the way, He stood there, that bright Divine Personality, Who
   was not only the Son of David, but the Son of Man, to bid them the
   Father's welcome of good pleasure to the Kingdom.

   And so, as the lengthening shadows gathered around the Temple-court and
   porches, they would fain have seen' Him, not afar off, but near: spoken
   to Him. They had became Proselytes of Righteousness;' they would become
   disciples of the Lord our Righteousness;' as Proselytes they had come
   to Jerusalem to worship,' and they would learn to praise. Yet, in the
   simple self-unconscious modesty of their religious childhood, they
   dared not go to Jesus directly, but came with their request to Philip
   of Bethsaida. [5144] We know not why to him: whether from family
   connections, or that his education, or previous circumstances,
   connected Philip with these Greeks,' or whether anything in his
   position in the Apostolic circle, or something that had just occurred,
   influenced their choice. And he also - such was the ignorance of the
   Apostles of the inmost meaning of their Master - dared not go directly
   to Jesus, but went ot his own townsman, who had been his early friend
   and fellow-disciple, and now stood so close to the Person of the Master
   - Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter. Together the two came to Jesus,
   Andrew apparently foremost. The answer of Jesus implies what, at any
   rate, we would have expected, that the request of these Gentile
   converts was granted, though this is not expressly stated, and it is
   extremely difficult to determine whether, and what portion of what He
   spake was addressed to the Greeks, and what to the disciples. Perhaps
   we should regard the opening words as bearing reference to the request
   of the Greeks, and hence as primarily addressed to the disciples,
   [5145] but also as serving as introduction of the words that follow,
   which were spoken primarily the Greeks, [5146] but secondarily also to
   the disciples, and which bear on that terrible, very near, mystery of
   His Death, and their Baptism into it.

   As we see these Greeks' approaching, the beginning of Christ's History
   seems re-enacted at its close. Not now in the stable of Bethlehem, but
   in the Temple, are the wise men,' the representatives of the Gentile
   world, offering their homage to the Messiah. But the life which had
   then begun was now all behind Him - and yet, in a sense, before Him.
   The hour of decision was about to strike. Not merely as the Messiah of
   Israel, but in His world-wide bearing as the Son of Man,' was He about
   to be glorified by receiving the homage of the Gentile world, of which
   the symbol and the firstfruits were now before Him. But only in one way
   could He thus be glorified: by dying for the salvation ot the world,
   and so opening the Kingdom of Heaven to all believers. On a thousand
   hills was the glorious harvest to tremble in the golden sunlight; but
   the corn of wheat falling into the ground, must, as it falls, die,
   burst its envelope, and so spring into a very manifoldedness of life.
   Otherwise would it have remained alone. This is the great paradox of
   the Kingdom of God - a paradox which has its symbol and analogon in
   nature, and which has also almost become the law of progress in
   history: that life which has not sprung of death abideth alone, and is
   really death, and that death is life. A paradox this, which has its
   ultimate reason in this, that sin has entered into the world.

   And as to the Master, the Prince of Life, so to the disciples, as
   bearing forth the life. If, in this world of sin, He must fall as the
   seed-corn into the ground and die, that many may spring of Him, so must
   they also hate their life, that they may keep it unto life eternal.
   Thus serving, they must follow Him, that where He is they may also be,
   for the Father will honour them that honour the Son.

   It is now sufficiently clear to us, that our Lord spake primarily to
   these Greeks, and secondarily to His disciples, of the meaning of His
   impending Death, of the necessity of faithfulness to Him in it, and of
   the blessing attaching thereto. Yet was not unconscious of the awful
   realities which this involved. [5147] He was true, Man, and His Human
   Soul was troubled in view of it: [5148] True Man, therefore He felt it;
   True Man, therefore He spake it, and so also sympathised with them in
   their coming struggle. Truly Man, but also truly more than Man - and
   hence both the expressed desire, and at the same tine the victory over
   that desire: What shall I say? [5149] "Father, save Me from this hour?
   [5150] But for this cause came I unto this hour!"' And the seeming
   discord is resolved, as both the Human and the Divine in the Son -
   faith and sight - join in glorious accord; Father, glorify Thy Name!'

   Such appeal and prayer, made in such circumstances, could not have
   remained unacknowledged, if He was the Messiah, Son of God. As at His
   Baptism, so at this Baptism of self-humiliation and absolute submission
   to suffering, came the Voice from Heaven, audible to all, but its words
   intelligible only to Him: I both glorified it, and will again glorify
   it!' [5151] Words these, which carried the Divine seal of confirmation
   to all Christ's past work, and assured it for that which was to come.
   The words of confirmation could only be for Himself; the Voice' was for
   all. What mattered it, that some spoke of it as thunder on a
   spring-evening, while others, with more reason, thought of
   Angel-Voices? To him it bore the assurance, which had all along been
   the ground of His claims, as it was the comfort in His Sufferings,
   that, as God had in the past glorified Himself in the Son, so would it
   be in the future in the perfecting of the work given Him to do. And
   this He now spake, as, looking on those Greeks as the emblem and
   firstfruits of the work finished in His Passion, He saw of the travail
   of His Soul, and was satisfied. Of both He spake in the prophetic
   present. To His view judgement had already come to this world, as it
   lay in the power of the Evil One, since the Prince of it was cast out
   from his present rule. And, in place of it, the Crucified Christ,
   lifted up out of the earth' - in the twofold sense - was, as the result
   of His Work, drawing, with sovereign, conquering power, all' unto Him,
   and up with Him.

   The Jews who heard it, so far understood Him, that His words referred
   to His removal from earth, or His Death, since this was a common Jewish
   mode of expression ({hebrew}). [5152] [5153] But they failed to
   understand His special reference to the manner of it. And yet, in view
   of the peculiarly shameful death to the cross, it was most important
   that He should ever point to it also. But, even in what they
   understood, they had a difficulty. They understood Him to imply that He
   would be taken from earth; and yet they had always been taught from the
   Scriptures [5154] that the Messiah was, when fully manifested, to abide
   for ever, or, as the Rabbis put it, that His Reign was to be followed
   by the Resurrection. Or did He refer to any other One by the
   expression, Son of Man?'  Into the controversial part of the question
   the Lord did not enter; nor would it have been fitting to have so in
   that hour.' But to their inquiry He fully replied, and that with such
   earnest, loving admonition as became His last address in the Temple.
   Yes; it was so! But a little while would the Light be among them.
   [5155] Let them hasten to avail themselves of it, [5156] lest darkness
   overtake them - and he that walked in darkness knew not wither he went.
   Oh, that His love could have arrested them! While they still had the
   Light,' would that they might learn to believe in the Light, that so
   they might become the children of Light!

   They were His last words of appeal to them, ere He withdrew to spend
   His Sabbath of soul before the Great Contest. [5157] And the writer of
   the Fourth Gospel gathers up, by way of epilogue, the great contrast
   between Israel and Christ. [5158] Although He had shown so many
   miracles, they believe not on Him - and this their wilful unbelief was
   the fulfillment of Esaias' prophecy of old concerning the Messiah.
   [5159] On the other hand, their wilful unbelief was also the judgement
   of God in accordiance with prophecy. [5160] Those who have followed the
   course of this history must have learned this above all, that the
   rejection of Christ by the Jews was not an isolated act, but the
   outcome and direct result of their whole previous religious
   development. In face of the clearest evidence, they did not believe,
   because they could not believe. The long course of their resistance to
   the prophetic message, and their perversion of it, was itself a
   hardening of their hearts, although at the same time a God-decreed
   sentence on their resistance. [5161] Because they would not believe -
   through this their mental obscuration, which came upon them in Divine
   judgement, although in the natural course of their self-chosen
   religious development - therefore, despite all evidence, they did not
   believe, when He came and did such miracles before them. And all this
   in accordance with prophecy, when Isaiah saw in far-off vision the
   bright glory [5162] of Messiah, and spoke of Him. Thus far Israel as a
   nation. And though, even among their chief rulers,' there were many who
   believed on him, yet dared they not make confession,' from fear that
   the Pharisees would put them out of the Synagogues, with all the
   terrible consequences which this implied. For such surrender of all
   were they not prepared, whose intellect might be convinced, but whose
   heart was not converted - who loved the glory of men more than the
   glory of God.'

   Such was Israel. On the other hand, what was the summary of the
   Christ's activity? His testimony now rose so loud, as to be within
   hearing of all (Jesus cried'). [5163] From first to last that testimony
   had pointed from Himself up to the Father. Its substance was the
   reality and the realisation of that which the Old Testimony had pointed
   from Himself up to the Father. Its substance was the reality and the
   realisation of that which the Old Testament had infolded and gradually
   unfolded to Israel, and through Israel to the world: the Fatherhood of
   God. To believe on him was really not faith in him, but faith in him
   that sent Him. A step higher: To behold Christ was to behold Him that
   had sent Him. [5164] To combine these two: Christ had come a light into
   the world, God had sent Him as as the Sun of Righteousness, that by
   believing on him as the God-sent, men might attain moral vision - no
   longer abide in darkness,' but in the bright spiritual light that and
   risen. But as for the others, there were those who heard and did not
   keep [5165] His words; and, again, who rejected, Him, and did not
   receive His words. Neither in one nor the other case was the
   controversy as between His sayings and men. As regarded the one class,
   He had come into the world with the Word of salvation, not with the
   sword of judgement. As regarded His open enemies, He left the issue
   till the evidence of His word should appear in the terrible judgenment
   of the last Day.

   Once more, and more empatic than ever, was the final appeal to His
   Mission by the Father. [5166] From first to last it had not been His
   own work: what He should say, and what He should speak, the Father
   Himself' had given Him commandment. Nay, this commandment, and what He
   spoke in it, was not mere teaching, nor Law: it was Life everlasting.
   And so it is, and ever shall be, eternal thanks to the love of Him Who
   sent, and the grace of Him Who came: that the things which He spake, He
   spake as the Father said unto Him.

   These two things, then, are the final summary by the Apostle of the
   History of the Christ in His public activity. On the one hand, he shows
   us how Israel, hardened in the self-chosen course of its religious
   development, could not, and, despite the clearest evidence, did not,
   believe. And, on the other hand, he sets before us the Christ
   absolutely surrendering Himself to do the Will and Work of the Father;
   witnessed by the Father; revealing the Father; coming as the Light of
   the world to chase away its moral darkness; speaking to all men,
   bringing to them salvation, not judgment, and leaving the vindication
   of His Word to its manifestation in the Last Day; and finally, as the
   Christ, Whose every message is commanded of God, and Whose every
   commandment is life everlasting - and therefore and so speaking it, as
   the Father said unto Him.

   These two things: concerning the history of Israel and their necessary
   unbelief, and concerning the Christ as God-sent, God-witnessed,
   God-revealing, bringing light and life as the Father's gift and command
   - the Christ as absolutely surrendering Himself to this Mission and
   embodying it - are the sum of the Gospel-narratives. They explain their
   meaning, and set forth their object and lessons.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [5103] St. Mark xi. 20.

   [5104] St. Matt. xxv. 46; St. Mark xiii. 37; St. Luke xxi. 36-38.

   [5105] St. Matt. xxvi. 1; St. Mark xiv. 1; St. Luke xxii. 1.

   [5106] St. Matthew.

   [5107] St. Luke.

   [5108] St. Mark.

   [5109] For these Levite chorister-boys, comp. The Temple and its
   Services,' p. 143.

   [5110] St. Mark.

   [5111] There is no evidence of a formal meeting of the Sanhedrin, nor,
   indeed, was there any case which, according to Jewish Law, could have
   been laid before them. Still less can we admit (with Dean Plumptre),
   that the Chief Priests, Scribes, and Elders represented the then
   constituent elements of the Sanhedrin.'

   [5112] Otherwise the greatest liberty of utterance was accorded to all
   who were qualified to teach.

   [5113] Sanh. iv. 4.

   [5114] Jer. Sanh. 19 a; lines 29 &c. from bottom.

   [5115] Sanh. i. 3.

   [5116] Sanh. 7 b.

   [5117] These involved points of special difficulty in cannon-law.

   [5118] Comp. Hamburger, Real-Encycl. ii. pp. 883-886. But he adds
   little to the learned labours of Selden, De Synedriis, ed. Frcf. pp.
   681-713. How the notion can have arisen that in early times a key was
   handed at ordination (Dean Plumptre and many others), it is difficult
   to say - unless it be from a misunderstanding of St. Luke xi. 52, or
   from a strange mistake of Lightfoot's meaning ad loc.

   [5119] St. Matt. xxi. 23-27; St. Mark xi. 27-33; St. Luke xx. 1-8.

   [5120] St. Luke xiii. 7.

   [5121] Acts. v. 37; Jos. Ant. xviii. 1. 1; xx. 5. 2.

   [5122] St. Luke xxiii. 2.

   [5123] St. Matt. xxii. 15-22; St. Mark xii. 13-17; St. Luke xx. 19-26.

   [5124] St. Luke.

   [5125] St. Matthew.

   [5126] Comp. for example, St. Mark iii. 6.

   [5127] Jos. Jew. War ii. 16. 4.

   [5128] Babha K. 113 a and the instance of Abigail pleading with David
   that Saul's coinage was still in circulation. Jer, Sanh. 20 b.

   [5129] For fuller particulars on this point see Book II. ch. x.

   [5130] Some might have even religious scruples about handling a coin of
   Cæsar. Such an instance is mentioned in Ab. Zar. 6 b, where a Rabbi is
   advised to throw it into the water, and pretend it had accidentally
   dropped from his hand. but probably that instance refers to the
   avoidance of all possibility of being regarded as sharing in
   idol-festivities.

   [5131] However pictorial, the sketch of this given by Keim (Jesu von
   Nazara,' iii. 1, pp. 131 &c.) is - as too often - somewhat exaggerated.

   [5132] By a strange concurrence the coin, which on Christ's demand was
   handed to Him, bore the image' of the Emperor. It must, therefore, have
   been either a foreign one (Roman), or else one of the Tetrarch Philip,
   who exceptionally had the image of Tiberius on his coins (comp.
   Schürer, N.T. Zeitgesch. p. 231). Neither Herod nor Herod Antipas had
   any image' on their coins, but only the usual devices' of the
   Maccabaean period. And the coins , which the Roman emperors had struck
   specially for Palestine, bore till the time of Vespasian, in
   accommodation to Jewish prejudices, no image of any kind.

   [5133] St. Mark xii. 17.

   [5134] xethamazon, according to the better reading in St. Mark.

   [5135] St. Mark xiii. 41-44; St. Luke xxi. 1-4.

   [5136] Sheqal. vi. 5; v. 6.

   [5137] Midd. i. 1.

   [5138] Jos. Ant. xvi. 4. 4; 7. 1.

   [5139] Babha B. 10 b.

   [5140] Jewish tradition, though it ever had painfully thrusts forward
   the reward, has some beautiful legends, allegories, and sayings about
   the gifts of the poor. One quotation must here suffice (Bemidb. R. 14).
   It is to the effect, that , if on who is poor, doeth charity, god says
   of him: This one is preventing Me. he has kept My commandments before
   they have come to him. I must recompense him. In Vayyikra R. 3, we read
   of a woman, whose offering of a handful of flour the priest despised,
   when God admonished him in a dream to value the gifts as hiaghly as if
   she had offered herself. Yet another quotation from the Mishnah. The
   tractate Menachoth closes with these words: Alike as regards
   burnt-offerings of beasts and those of fowls (those of the poor) and
   the meat-offering, we find the expression "for a sweet savour," to
   teach us, that to offer much or to offer little is tha same, provided
   only that a person direct mind and heart towards God.'

   [5141] St. John xii. 20-50.

   [5142] See ch. vi.

   [5143] St. Matt. xxiv.

   [5144] We mark here also the utter absence of all legendary
   embellishments as evidence of truth. So far from yielding to what, even
   in a book like the present, is a temptation, the narrative of the
   Evangelist is peculiarly meagre and void of details. We may note that
   only proselytes of righteousness,' who had submitted of circumcision,
   would be allowed fellowship in the regular worship.

   [5145] St. John xii. 23.

   [5146] vv. 24-26.

   [5147] vv. 27, 28 a.

   [5148] Concurrebat horror mortis et ardor obedientiæ. - Bengel.

   [5149] Quid dicam? non, quid eligam? - Bengel.

   [5150] Professor Westcott has declared himself in favour of regarding
   this clause, not as a question, but as a prayer, But this seems to me
   incompatible alike with the preceding and the succeeding clause.

   [5151] St. John vii. 28 b-33.

   [5152] vv. 34-36 a.

   [5153] This is another evidence of the Aramaic education of the writer
   of the Fourth Gospel. Yet another is the peculiar Judaic use of the
   word {hebrew}, hour, in ver. 27. But the idea of Prince of this world'
   has no analogon in the {hebrew} (or Metatron) of Rabbinism, to whom,
   strangely, the designation {hebrew} (in Zech. ii. 4 A.V., Babha B. 75
   b, and in Ps. xxxvii. 25, Yebam. 16 b, about middle) is applied. And
   this is, on the other hand, quite as characteristic of the Gospel
   which, under Jewish forms, bears a totally contrary spirit.

   [5154] It is another mark of Jewish authorship, this use of the word
   Law,' to denote the whole Scriptures.

   [5155] Lux ipsa manet; sed non semper in vobis.

   [5156] Ambulandum, non disceptandum. Fides non est deszes, sed agilis
   in luce.

   [5157] St. John xii. 36 b.

   [5158] St. John vii. 37-43.

   [5159] Is. liii 1.

   [5160] Is. vi.

   [5161] Hence the effect which is Isa. vi. is ascribed to the prophet,
   is here assigned to God. We say decreed' - but not decreed beforehand,
   and irrespective of their conduct. The passage is neither quoted from
   the Hebrew nor from the LXX., but Targumed.

   [5162] The paraphrase of this passage in the Targum Jonathan (for which
   see Appendix II.) is, indeed, most interesting; but the Yeqara or
   outstanding splendour of Jehovah, is not that to which the Evangelist
   here refers.

   [5163] St. John xii. 44.

   [5164] vv. 45-48.

   [5165] So according to the better reading.

   [5166] vv. 49, 50.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER IV.
THE THIRD DAY IN PASSION-WEEK - THE LAST CONTROVERSIES AND DISCOURSES - THE
SADDUCEES AND THE RESURRECTION - THE SCRIBE AND THE GREAT COMMANDMENT - QUESTION
TO THE PHARISEES ABOUT DAVID'S SON AND LORD - FINAL WARNING TO THE PEOPLE: THE
EIGHT WOES' - FAREWELL.

   (St. Matt. xxii. 23-33; St. Mark xii. 18-27; St. Luke xx. 27-39; St.
   Matt. xxii. 34-40; St. Mark xii. 28-34; St. Matt. xxii. 41-46; St. Mark
   xii. 35-40; St. Luke xx. 40-47; St. Matt. xxiii.)

   THE last day in the Temple was not to pass without other temptations'
   than that of the Priests when they questioned His authority, or of the
   Pharisees when they cunningly sought to entangle Him in His speech.
   Indeed, Christ had on this occasion taken a different position; He had
   claimed supreme authority, and thus challenged the leaders of Israel.
   For this reason, and because at the last we expect assaults from all
   His enemies, we are prepared for the controversies of that day.

   We remember that, during the whole previous history, Christ had only on
   one occasion come into public conflict with the Sadducees, when,
   characteristically, they had asked of Him a sign from heaven.' [5167]
   Their Rationalism would lead them to treat the whole movement as
   beneath serious notice, the outcome of ignorant fanaticism.
   Nevertheless, when Jesus assumed such a position in the Temple, and was
   evidently to such extent swaying the people, it behoved them, if only
   to guard their position, no longer to stand by. Possibly, the
   discomfiture and powerlessness of the Pharisees may also have had their
   influence. At any rate, the impression left is, that those of them who
   now went to Christ were delegates, and that the question which they put
   had been well planned. [5168]

   Their object was certainly not serious argument, but to use the much
   more dangerous weapon of ridicule. Persecution the populace might have
   resented; for open opposition all would have been prepared; but to come
   with icy politeness and philosophic calm, and by a well-turned question
   to reduce the renowned Galilean Teacher to silence, and show the
   absurdity of His teaching, would have been to inflict on His cause the
   most damaging blow. To this day such appeals to rough and ready
   common-sense are the main stock-in-trade of that coarse infidelity,
   which, ignoring alike the demands of higher thinking and the facts of
   history, appeals - so often, alas! effectually - to the untrained
   intellect of the multitude, and - shall we not say it? - to the coarse
   and lower in us all. Besides, had the Sadducees succeeded, they would
   at the same time have gained a signal triumph for their tenets, and
   defeated, together with the Galilean Teacher, their own Pharisaic
   opponents. The subject of attack was to be the Resurrection [5169] -
   the same which is still the favourite topic for the appeals of the
   coarser forms of infidelity to the common sense' of the masses. Making
   allowance for difference of circumstances, we might almost imagine we
   were listening to one of our modern orators of materialism. And in
   those days the defence of belief in the Resurrection laboured under
   twofold difficulty. It was as yet a matter of hope, not of faith:
   something to look forward to, not to look back upon. The isolated
   events recorded in the Old Testament, and the miracles of Christ -
   granting that they were admitted - were rather instances of
   resuscitation than of Resurrection. The grand fact of history, than
   which none is better attested - the Resurrection of Christ - had not
   yet taken place, and was not even clearly in view of any one. Besides,
   the utterances of the Old Testament on the subject of the hereafter'
   were, as became alike that stage of revelation and the understanding of
   those to whom it was addressed, far from clear. In the light of the New
   Testament it stands out in the sharpest proportions, although as an
   Alpine height afar off; but then that Light had not yet risen upon it.

   Besides, the Sadducees would allow no appeal to the highly poetic
   language of the Prophets, to whom, at any rate, they attached less
   authority, but demanded proof from that clear and precise letter of the
   Law, every tittle and iota of which the Pharisees exploited for their
   doctrinal inferences, and from which alone they derived them. Here,
   also, it was the Nemesis of Pharisaism, that the postulates of their
   system laid it open to attack. In vain would the Pharisees appeal to
   Isaiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, or the Psalms. [5170] To such an argument as
   from the words, this people will rise up,' [5171] the Sadducees would
   rightly reply, that the context forbade the application to the
   Resurrection; to the quotation of Isaiah xxvi. 19, they would answer
   that that promise must be understood spiritually, like the vision of
   the dry bones in Ezekiel; while such a reference as to this, causing
   the lips of those that are asleep to speak,' [5172] would scarcely
   require serious refutation. [5173] Of similar character would be the
   argument from the use of a special word, such as return' in Gen. iii.
   19, [5174] or that from the twofold mention of the word cut off' in the
   original of Num. xv. 31, as implying punishment in the present and in
   the future dispensation. [5175] Scarcely more convincing would be the
   appeal to such passages as Deut. xxxii. 39: I kill and make alive,'
   [5176] or the statement that, whenever a promise occurs in the form
   which in Hebrew represents the future tense, [5177] it indicates a
   reference to the Resurrection. Perhaps more satisfactory, although not
   convincing to a Sadducee, whose special contention it was to insist on
   proof from the Law, [5178] might be an appeal to such passages as Dan.
   xii. 2, 13, [5179] or to the restoration of life by certain of the
   prophets, with the superadded canon, that God had in part
   prefiguratively wrought by His prophets whatever He would fully restore
   in the future.

   If Pharisaic argumentation had failed to convince the Sadducees on
   Biblical grounds, it would be difficult to imagine that, even in the
   then state of scientific knowledge, any enquiring person could have
   really believed that there was a small bone in the spine which was
   indestructible, and from which the new man would spring; [5180] or that
   there existed even now a species of mice, or else of snails, which
   gradually and visibly developed out of the earth. [5181] Many clever
   sayings of the Pharisees are, indeed, here recorded in their
   controversies, as on most subjects, and by which a Jewish opponent
   might have been silenced. But here, especially, must it have been felt
   that a reply was not always an answer, and that the silencing of an
   opponent was not identical with proof of one's own assertion. And the
   additions with which the Pharisees had encumbered the doctrine of the
   Resurrection would not only surround it with fresh difficulties, but
   deprive the simple fact of its grand majesty. Thus, it was a point in
   discussion, whether a person would rise in his clothes, which one Rabbi
   tried to establish by a reference to the grain of wheat, which was
   buried naked,' but rose clothed. [5182] Indeed, some Rabbis held, that
   a man would rise in exactly the same clothes in which he had been
   buried, while others denied this. [5183] On the other hand, it was
   beautifully argued that body and soul must be finally judged together,
   so that, in their contention to which of them the sins of man had been
   due, justice might be meted out to each - or rather to the two in their
   combination, as in their combination they had sinned. [5184] Again, it
   was inferred from the apparition of Samuel [5185] that the risen would
   look exactly as in life - have even the same bodily defects, such as
   lameness, blindness, or deafness. It is argued, that they were only
   afterwards to be healed, lest enemies might say that God had not healed
   them when they were alive, but that He did so when they were dead, and
   that they were perhaps not the same persons. [5186] In some respects
   even more strange was the contention that, in order to secure that all
   the pious of Israel should rise on the sacred soil of Palestine, [5187]
   there were cavities underground in which the body would roll till it
   reached the Holy Land, there to rise to newness of life. [5188]

   But all the more, that it was so keenly controverted by heathens,
   Sadducees, and heretics, as appears from many reports in the Talmud,
   and that it was so encumbered with realistic legends, should we admire
   the tenacity with which the Pharisees clung to this doctrine. The hope
   of the Resurrection-world appears in almost every religious utterance
   of Israel. It is the spring-bud on the tree, stript by the long winter
   of disappointment and persecution. This hope pours its morning carol
   into the prayer which every Jew is bound to say on awakening; [5189] it
   sheds its warm breath over the oldest of the daily prayers which date
   from before the time of our Lord; [5190] in the formula from age to
   age,' world without end,' it forms, so to speak, the rearguard to every
   prayer, defending it from Sadducean assault; [5191] it is one of the
   few dogmas denial of which involves, according to the Mishnah, the loss
   of eternal life, the Talmud explaining, almost in the words of Christ -
   that in the retribution of God this is only measure according to
   measure;' [5192] nay, it is venerable even in its exaggeration, that
   only our ignorance fails to perceive it in every section of the Bible,
   and to hear it in every commandment of the Law.

   But in the view of Christ the Resurrection would necessarily occupy a
   place different from all this. It was the innermost shrine in the
   Sanctuary of His Mission, towards which He steadily tended; it was
   also, at the same time, the living corner-stone of that Church which he
   had builded, and its spire, which, as with uplifted finger, ever
   pointed all men heavenwards. But of such thoughts connected with His
   Resurrection Jesus could not have spoken to the Sadducees; they would
   have been unintelligible at that time even to His own disciples. He met
   the cavil of the Sadducees majestically, seriously, and solemnly, with
   words most lofty and spiritual, yet such as they could understand, and
   which, if they had received them, would have led them onwards and
   upwards far beyond the standpoint of the Pharisees. A lesson this to us
   in our controversies.

   The story under which the Sadducees conveyed their sneer was also
   intended covertly to strike at their Pharisaic opponents. The ancient
   ordinance of marrying a brother's childless widow [5193] [5194] had
   more and more fallen into discredit, as its original motive ceased to
   have influence. A large array of limitations narrowed the number of
   those on whom this obligation now devolved. Then the Mishnah laid it
   down that, in ancient times, when the ordinance of such marriage was
   obeyed in the spirit of the Law, its obligation took precedence of the
   permission of dispensation, but that afterwards this relationship
   became reversed. [5195] Later authorities went further. Some declared
   every such union, if for beauty, wealth, or any other than religious
   motives, as incestuous, [5196] while one Rabbi absolutely prohibited
   it, although opinions continued divided on the subject. But what here
   most interests us is, that what are called in the Talmud the
   Samaritans,' but, as we judge, the Sadducees, held the opinion that the
   command to marry a brother's widow only applied to a betrothed wife,
   not to one that had actually been wedded. [5197] This gives point to
   the controversial question, as addressed to Jesus.

   A case such as they told, of a woman who had successively been married
   to seven brothers, might, according to Jewish Law, have really
   happened. [5198] Their sneering question now was, whose wife she was to
   be in the Resurrection. This, of course, on the assumption of the
   grossly materialistic views of the Pharisees. In this the Sadducean
   cavil was, in a sense, anticipating certain objections of modern
   materialism. It proceeded on the assumption that the relations of time
   would apply to eternity, and the conditions of the things seen hold
   true in regard to those that are unseen. But perchance it is otherwise;
   and the future may reveal what in the present we do not see. The
   reasoning as such may be faultless; but, perchance, something in the
   future may have to be inserted in the major or the minor, which will
   make the conclusion quite other! All such cavils we would meet with the
   twofold appeal of Christ to the Word [5199] and to the Power of God -
   how God has manifested, and how He will manifest Himself - the one
   flowing from the other.

   In His argument against the Sadducees Christ first appealed to the
   power of God. [5200] What God would work was quite other than they
   imagined: not a mere re-awakening, but a transformation. The world to
   come was not to be a reproduction of that which had passed away - else
   why should it have passed away - but a regeneration and renovation; and
   the body with which we were to be clothed would be like that which
   Angels bear. What, therefore, in our present relations is of the earth,
   and of our present body of sin and corruption, will cease; what is
   eternal in them will continue. But the power of God will transform all
   - the present terrestrial into the future heavenly, the body of
   humiliation into one of exaltation. This will be the perfecting of all
   things by that Almighty Power by which He shall subdue all things to
   Himself in the Day of His Power, when death shall be swallowed up in
   victory. And herein also consists the dignity of man, in virtue of the
   Redemption introduced, and, so to speak, begun at his Fall, that man is
   capable of such renovation and perfection - and herein, also, is the
   power of God,' that He hath quickened us together with Christ, so that
   here already the Church receives in Baptism into Christ the germ of the
   Resurrection, which is afterwards to be nourished and fed by faith,
   through the believer's participation in the Sacrament of fellowship
   with His body and Blood. [5201] Nor ought questions here to rise, like
   dark clouds, such as of the perpetuity of those relations which on
   earth are not only so precious to us, but so holy. Assuredly, they will
   endure, as all that is of God and good; only what in them is earthly
   will cease, or rather be transformed with the body. Nay, and we shall
   also recognise each other, not only by the fellowship of the soul; but
   as, even now, the mind impresses its stamp on the features, so then,
   when all shall be quite true, shall the soul, so to speak, body itself
   forth, fully impress itself on the outward appearance, and for the
   first time shall we then fully recognise those whom we shall now fully
   know - with all of earth that was in them left behind, and all of God
   and good fully developed and ripened into perfectness of beauty.

   But it was not enough to brush aside the flimsy cavil, which had only
   meaning on the supposition of grossly materialistic views of the
   Resurrection. Our Lord would not merely reply, He would answer the
   Sadducees; and more grand or noble evidence of the Resurrection has
   never been offered than that which He gave. Of course as speaking to
   the Sadducees, He remained on the ground of the Pentateuch; and yet it
   was not only to the Law but to the whole Bible that He appealed, nay,
   to that which underlay Revelation itself: the relation between God and
   man. Not this nor that isolated passage only proved the Resurrection:
   He Who, not only historically but in the fullest sense, calls Himself
   the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, cannot leave them dead.
   Revelation implies, not merely a fact of the past - as is the notion
   which traditionalism attaches to it - a dead letter; it means a living
   relationship. He is not the God of the dead, but of the living, for all
   live unto Him.'

   The Sadducees were silenced, the multitude was astonished, and even
   from some of the Scribes the admission was involuntarily wrung:
   Teacher, Thou hast beautifully said.' One point, however, still claims
   our attention. It is curious that, as regards both these arguments of
   Christ, Rabbinism offers statements closely similar. Thus, it is
   recorded as one of the frequent sayings of a later Rabbi, that in the
   world to come there would be neither eating nor drinking, fruitfulness
   nor increase, business nor envy, hatred nor strife, but that the just
   would sit with crowns on their heads, and feast on the splendor of the
   Shekhinah. [5202] This reads like a Rabbinic adaptation of the saying
   of Christ. As regards the other point, the Talmud reports a discussion
   on the Resurrection between Sadducees,' or perhaps Jewish heretics
   (Jewish-Christian heretics), in which Rabbi Gamaliel II. at last
   silences his opponents by an appeal to the promise [5203] that ye may
   prolong your days in the land which the Lord sware unto your father to
   give unto them' - unto them,' emphasises the Rabbi, not unto you.'
   [5204] Although this almost entirely misses the spiritual meaning
   conveyed in the reasoning of Christ, it is impossible to mistake its
   Christian origin. Gamaliel II. lived after Christ, but at a period when
   there was lively intercourse between Jews and Jewish Christians; while,
   lastly, we have abundant evidence that the Rabbi was acquainted with
   the sayings of Christ, and took part in the controversy with the
   Church. [5205] On the other hand, Christians in his day - unless
   heretical sects - neither denied that Resurrection, nor would they have
   so argued with the Jewish Patriarch; while the Sadducees no longer
   existed as a party engaging in active controversy. But we can easily
   perceive, that intercourse would be more likely between Jews and such
   heretical Jewish Christians as might maintain that the Resurrection was
   past, and only spiritual. The point is deeply interesting. It opens
   such further questions as these: In the constant intercourse between
   Jewish Christians and Jews, what did the latter learn? and may there
   not be much in the Talmud which is only an appropriation and adaptation
   of what had been derived from the New Testament?

   2. The answer of our Lord was not without its further results. As we
   conceive it, among those who listened to the brief but decisive passage
   between Jesus and the Sadducees were some Scribes' - Sopherim, or, as
   they are also designated, lawyers,' teachers of the Law,' experts,
   expounders, practitioners of the Jewish Law. One of them, perhaps he
   who exclaimed: Beautifully said, Teacher! hastened to the knot of
   Pharisees, whom it requires no stretch of the imagination to picture
   gathered in the Temple on that day, and watching, with restless, ever
   foiled malice, the Saviour's every movement. As the Scribe' came up to
   them, he would relate how Jesus had literally gagged' and muzzled'
   [5206] the Sadducees - just as, according to the will of God, we are by
   well-doing to gag the want or knowledge of senseless men.' There can be
   little doubt that the report would give rise to mingled feelings, in
   which that prevailing would be, that, although Jesus might thus have
   discomfited the Sadducees, He would be unable to cope with other
   questions, if only properly propounded by Pharisaic learning. And so we
   can understand how one of the number, perhaps the same Scribe, would
   volunteer to undertake the office; [5207] and how his question was, as
   St. Matthew reports, in a sense really intended to tempt' Jesus.

   We dismiss here the well-known Rabbinic distinctions of heavy' and
   light' commandments, because Rabbinism declared the light' to be as
   binding as the heavy,' [5208] those of the Scribes more heavy' (or
   binding) than those of Scripture, [5209] and that one commandment was
   not to be considered to carry greater reward, and to be therefore more
   carefully observed, than another. [5210] That such thoughts were not in
   the mind of the questioner, but rather the grand general problem -
   however himself might have answered it - appears even from the form of
   his inquiry: Which [qualis] is the great - the first' [5211] -
   commandment in the Law?' So challenged, the Lord could have no
   hesitation in replying. Not to silence him, but to speak the absolute
   truth, He quoted the well-remembered words which every Jew was bound to
   repeat in his devotions, and which were ever to be on his lips, living
   or dying, as the inmost expression of his faith: Hear, O Israel, the
   Lord our God is one Lord.' And then continuing, He repeated the command
   concerning love to God which is the outcome of that profession. But to
   have stopped here would have been to propound a theoretic abstraction
   without concrete reality, a mere Pharisaic worship of the letter. As
   God is love - His Nature so manifesting itself - so is love to God also
   love [5212] to man. And so this second is like' the first and great
   commandment.' It was a full answer to the Scribe when He said: There is
   none other commandment greater than these.'

   But it was more than an answer, even deepest teaching, when, as St.
   Matthew reports, He added: on these two commandments hang all the law
   and the prophets.' [5213] It little matters for our present purpose how
   the Jews at the time understood and interpreted these two commandments.
   [5214] They would know what it meant that the Law and the Prophets
   hung' on them, for it was a Jewish expression ({hebrew}). He taught
   them, not that any one commandment was greater or smaller, heavier or
   lighter, than another - might be set aside or neglected, but that all
   sprang from these two as their root and principle, and stood in living
   connection with them. It was teaching similar to that concerning the
   Resurrection; that, as concerning the promises, so concering the
   commandments, all Revelation was one connected whole; not disjointed
   ordinances of which the letter was to be weighed, but a life springing
   from love to God and love to man. So noble was the answer, that for the
   moment the generous enthusiasm of the Scribe, who had previously been
   favorably impressed by Christ's answer to the Sadducees, was kindled.
   For the moment, at least, traditionalism lost its sway; and, as Christ
   pointed to it, he saw the exceeding moral beauty of the Law. He was not
   far from the Kingdom of God. [5215] Whether or not he ever actually
   entered it, is written on the yet unread page of its history.

   3. The Scribe had originally come to put his question with mixed
   motives, partially inclined towards Him from His answer to the
   Sadducees, and yet intending to subject Him to the Rabbinic test. The
   effect now wrought in him, and the silence which from that moment fell
   on all His would-be questioners, induced Christ to follow up the
   impression that had been made. Without addressing any one in
   particular, He set before them all, what perhaps was the most familiar
   subject in their theology, that of the descent of Messiah. Whose Son
   was He? And when they replied: The Son of David,' [5216] He referred
   them to the opening words of Psalm cx., in which David called the
   Messiah Lord.' The argument proceeded, of course, on the two-fold
   supposition that the Psalm was Davidic and that it was Messianic.
   Neither of these statements would have been questioned by the ancient
   Synagogue. But we could not rest satisfied with the explanation that
   this sufficed for the purpose of Christ's argument, if the foundation
   on which it rested could be seriously called in question. Such,
   however, is not the case. To apply Psalm cx., verse by verse and
   consistently, to any one of the Maccabees, were to undertake a critical
   task which only a series of unnatural explanations of the language
   could render possible. Strange, also, that such an interpretation of
   what at the time of Christ would have been a comparatively young
   composition, should have been wholly unknown alike to Sadducee and
   Pharisee. For our own part, we are content to rest the Messianic
   interpretation on the obvious and natural meaning of the words taken in
   connection with the general teaching of the Old Testament about the
   Messiah, on the undoubted interpretation of the ancient Jewish
   Synagogue, [5217] on the authority of Christ, and on the testimony of
   History.

   Compared with this, the other question as to the authorship of the
   Psalm is of secondary importance. The character of infinite, nay,
   Divine, superiority to any earthly Ruler, and of course to David, which
   the Psalm sets forth in regard to the Messiah, would sufficiently
   support the argument of Christ. But, besides, what does it matter,
   whether the Psalm was composed by David, or only put into the mouth of
   David (David's or Davidic), which, on the supposition of Messianic
   application, is the only rational alternative?

   But we should greatly err if we thought that, in calling the attention
   of His hearers to this apparent contradiction about the Christ, the
   Lord only intended to show the utter incompetence of the Pharisees to
   teach the higher truths of the Old Testament. Such, indeed, was the
   case - and they felt it in His Presence. [5218] But far beyond this, as
   in the proof which He gave for the Ressurection, and in the view which
   He presented of the great commandment, the Lord would point to the
   grand harmonious unity of Revelation. Viewed separately, the two
   statements, that Messiah was David's Son, and that David owned Him
   Lord, would seem incompatible. But in their combination in the Person
   of the Christ, how harmonious and how full of teaching - to Israel of
   old, and to all men - concerning the nature of Christ's Kingdom and of
   His Work!

   It was but one step from this demonstration of the incompetence of
   Israel's teachers for the position they claimed to a solemn warning on
   this subject. And this appropriately constitutes Christ's Farewell to
   the Temple, to its authorieites, and to Israel. As might have been
   expected, we have the report of it in St. Matthew's Gospel. [5219] Much
   of this had been said before, but in quite other connection, and
   therefore with different application. We notice this, when comparing
   this Discourse with the Sermon on the Mount, and, still more, with what
   Christ had said when at the meal in the house of the Pharisee in Peræa.
   [5220] But here St. Matthew presents a regular series of charges
   against the representatives of Judaism, formulated in logical manner,
   taking up successively one point after the other, and closing with the
   expression of deepest compassion and longing for that Jerusalem, whose
   children He would fain have gathered under His sheltering wings from
   the storm of Divine judgment.

   To begin with - Christ would have them understand, that, in warning
   them of the incompetence of Israel's teachers for the position which
   they occupied, He neither wished for Himself nor His disciples the
   place of authority which they claimed, nor yet sought to incite the
   people to reisitance thereto. On the contrary, so long as they held the
   place of authority they were to be regarded - in the language of the
   Mishnah [5221] - as if instituted by Moses himself, as sitting in
   Moses' seat, and were to be obeyed, so far as merely outward
   observances were concerned. We regard this direction, not as of merely
   temporary application, but as involving as important principle. But we
   also recall that the ordinances to which Christ made reference were
   those of the Jewish canon-law, and did not involve anything which could
   really affect the conscience - except that of the ancient, or of our
   modern Pharisees. But while they thus obeyed their outward directions,
   they were equally to eschew the spirit which characterised their
   observances. [5222] In this respect of twofold charge is laid against
   them: of want of spiritual earnestness and love, [5223] and of more
   externalism, vanity, and self-seeking. [5224] And here Christ
   interrupted His Discourse to warn His disciples against the first
   beginnings of what had led to such fearful consequences, and to point
   them to the better way. [5225]

   This constitutes the first part of Christ's charge. Before proceeding
   to those which follow, we may give a few illustrative explanations. Of
   the opening accusation about the binding (truly in bondage: desmeo) of
   heavy burdens and grievous to be borne, and laying them on men's
   shoulders, proof can scarcely be required. As frequently shown,
   Rabbinism placed the ordinances of tradition above those of the Law,
   [5226] and this by a necessity of the system, since they were
   professedly the authoritative exposition and the supplement of the
   written Law. [5227] And although it was a general rule, that no
   ordinance should be enjoined heavier that the congregation could bear,
   [5228] yet (as previously stated) it was admitted, that whereas the
   words of the Law contained what lightened' and what made heavy,' the
   words of the Scribes contained only what made heavy.' [5229] Again, it
   was another principle, that were an aggravation' or increase of the
   burden had once been introduced, it must continue to be observed.
   [5230] Thus the burdens became intolerable. And the blame rested
   equally on both the great Rabbinic Schools. For, although lthe School
   of Hillel was supposed in general to make the yoke lighter, and that of
   Shammai heavier, yet not only did they agree on many points, [5231] but
   the School of Hillel was not unfrequently even more strict than that of
   his rival. [5232] In truth, their differences seem too often only
   prompted by a spirit of opposition, so that the serious business of
   religion became in their hands one of rival authority and mere
   wrangling. [5233]

   It is not so easy to understand the second part of Christ's accusation.
   There were, indeed, many hypocrites among them, who might, in the
   language of the Talmud, alleviate for themselves and make heavy for
   others. [5234] Yet the charge of not moving them with the finger could
   scarcely apply to the Pharisees as a party - not even in this sense,
   that Rabbinic ingenuity mostly found some means of evading what was
   unpleasant. But, as previously explained, [5235] we would understand
   the word rendered move' as meaning to set in motion,' or move away,' in
   the sense that they did not alleviate' where they might have done so,
   or else with reference to their admitted principle, that their
   ordinances always made heavier, never lighter - always imposed grievous
   burdens, but never, not even with the finger, moved them away.

   With this charge of unreality and want of love, those of externalism,
   vanity, and self-seeking are closely connected. Here we can only make
   selection from the abundant evidence in our support of it. By a merely
   external interpretation of Exod. xiii. 9, 16, and Deut. vi. 8; xi. 18,
   practice of wearing Phylacteries or, as they were called, Tephillin,
   prayer-fillets,' was introduced. [5236] These, as will be remembered,
   were square capsules, covered with leather, containing on small scrolls
   of parchment, these four sections of the law: Exod. xiii. 1-10; 11-16:
   Deut. vi. 4-9; xi. 13-21. The Phylacteries were fastened by long
   leather straps to the forehead, and round the left arm, near the heart.
   Most superstitious reverence was attached to them, and in later times
   they were even used as amulets. Nevertheless, the Talmud itself gives
   confirmation that the practice of constantly wearing phylacteries - or,
   it might be, making them broad, and enlarging the borders of the
   garments, we intended for to be seen of men.' Thus we are told of a
   certain man who had done so, in order to cover his dishonest practices
   in appropriating what had been entrusted to his keeping. [5237] Nay,
   the Rabbis had in so many words to lay it down as a principle, than the
   Phylacteries were not to be worn for show. [5238]

   Detailed proof is scarcely required of the charge of vanity and
   self-seeking in claiming marked outward honours, such as the upper-most
   places at feasts and in the Synagogue, respectful salutations in the
   market, the ostentatious repetition of the title Rabbi,' or Abba,'
   Father,' or Master,' [5239] [5240] or the distinction of being
   acknowledged as greatest.' The very earnestness with which the Talmud
   sometimes warns against such motives for study or for piety
   sufficiently establishes it. But, indeed, Rabbinic writings lay down
   elaborate directions, what place is to be assigned to the Rabbis,
   according to their rank, and to their disciples, [5241] and how in the
   College the most learned, but at feast the most aged, among the Rabbis,
   are to occupy the upper seats.' [5242] So weighty was the duty of
   respectful salutation by the title Rabbi, that to neglect it would
   involve the heaviest punishment. [5243] Two great Rabbis are described
   as literally complaining, that they must have lost the very appearance
   of learning, since in the market-place they only had been greeted with
   May your peace be great,' without the addition My masters.' [5244]

   A few further illustrations of the claims which Rabbinism preferred may
   throw light on the words of Christ. It reads like a wretched imitation
   from the New Testament, when the heathen Governor of Cæsarea is
   represented as rising up before Rabbis because he beheld the faces as
   it were of Angels;' or like an adaptation of the well-known story about
   Constantine the Great when the Governor of Antioch is described as
   vindicating a similar mark of respect to the Rabbis by this, that he
   had seen their faces and by them conquered in battle. [5245] From
   another Rabbi rays of light are said to have visibly proceeded. [5246]
   According to some, they were Epicuraeans, who had no part in the world
   to come, who referred slightingly to these Rabbis.' [5247] To sypply a
   learned man with the means of gaining money in trade, would procure a
   high place in heaven. [5248] It was said that, according to Prov. viii.
   15, the sages were to be saluted as kings; [5249] nay, in some
   respects, they were higher - for, as between a sage and a king, it
   would be duty to give the former priority in redemption from captivity,
   since every Israelite was fit to be a king, but the loss of a Rabbi
   could not easily be made up. [5250] But even this is not all. The curse
   of a Rabbi, even if uncaused, would surely come to pass. [5251] It
   would be too painful to repeat some of the miracles pretended to have
   been done by them or for them, occasionally in protection of a lie; or
   to record their disputes which among them was greatest,' or how they
   established their respective claims. [5252] Nay, their self-assertion
   extended beyond this life, and a Rabbi went so far as to order that he
   should be buried in white garments, to show that he was worthy of
   appearing before his Maker. [5253] But perhaps the climax of
   blasphemous self-assertion is reached in the story, that, in a
   discussion in heaven between God and the heavenly Academy on a Halakhic
   question about purity, a certain Rabbi - deemed that most learned on
   the subject - was summoned to decide the point! As his soul passed from
   the body he exclaimed: Pure, pure,' which the Voice from Heaven applied
   to the state of the Rabbi's soul; and immediately afterwards a letter
   had fallen from heaven to inform the sages of the purpose of which the
   Rabbi had been summoned to the heavenly assembly, and afterwards
   another enjoing a week's universal mourning for him on pain of
   excommunication. [5254]

   Such daring profanities must have crushed out all spiritual religion,
   and reduced it to a mere intellectual display, in which the Rabbi was
   always chief - here and hereafter. Repulsive as such legends are, they
   will at least help us to understand what otherwise might seem harsh in
   our Lord's denunciations of Rabbinism. In view of all this, we need not
   discuss the Rabbinic warnings against pride and self-seeking when
   connected with study, nor their admonitions to humility. [5255] For,
   the question here is, what Rabbinism regarded as pride, and what as
   humility, in its teachers? Nor is it maintained that all were equally
   guilty in this matter; and what passed around may well have led more
   earnest to energetic admonitions to humility and unselfishness. but no
   ingenuity can explain away the facts as above stated, and, when such
   views prevailed, it would have been almost superhuman wholly to aviod
   what our Lord denounced as characteristic of Pharisaism. And in this
   sense, not with Pharisaic painful literalism, but as opposed to
   Rabbinic bearing, are we to understand the Lord's warning ot His own
   not to claim among brethen to be Rabbi,' or Abba,' or guide.' [5256]
   The Law of the Kindgom, as repeatedly taught, [5257] was the opposite.
   As regarede aims, they were to seek the greatness of service; and as
   regarded that acknowledgment which would come from God, it would be the
   exaltation of humiliation.

   It was not a break in the Discourse, [5258] rather an intensification
   of it, when Christ now turned to make final denunication of Pharisaism
   in its sin and hypocrisy. [5259] Corresponding to the eight Beatitudes
   in the Sermon on the Mount with which His public Ministry began, He now
   closed it with eight denunciations of woe. [5260] These are the
   fourthpouring of His holy wrath, the last and fullest testimony against
   those whose guilt would involve Jerusalem in common sin and common
   judgement. Step by step, with logical sequence and intensified pathos
   of energy, is each charge advanced, and with it the Woe of Divine wrath
   announced.

   The first Woe against Pharisaism was on their shutting the Kingdom of
   God against men by their opposition to the Christ. All knew how
   exclusive were their pretensions in confining piety to the possesion of
   knowledge, and that they declared it impossible for an ignorant person
   to be pious. Had they taught men the Scriptures, and shown them the
   right way, they would have been true to their office; but woe to them
   who, in their positions as leaders, had themselves stood back with
   their backs to the door of the Kingdom, and prevented the entrance of
   others.

   The second Woe was on their covetousness and hypocrisy. They made long
   prayers, [5261] but how often did it only cover the vilest selfishness,
   even to the devouring' of widow's houses. We can scarcely expect the
   Talmud here to furnish us with illustrative instances, and yet at least
   one such is recorded; [5262] and we recall how often broad phylacteries
   covered fraudulent minds.

   The third Woe was on their proselytism, which issued only in making
   their converts twofold more the children of hell than themselves.
   Against this charge, rightly understood, Judaism has in vain sought to
   defend itself. It is, indeed, true that, in its pride and
   exclusiveness, Judaism seemed to denounce proselytism, laid down strict
   rules to test the sincerity of converts, and spoke of them in general
   contempt [5263] as a plague of leprosy.' [5264] Yet the bitter
   complaint of classical writers, [5265] [5266] the statements of
   Josephus, [5267] the frequent allusions in the New Testament and even
   the admissions of the Rabbis, prove their zeal for making proselytes -
   which, indeed, but for its moral sequences, would neither have deserted
   nor drawn down the denunciation of a woe.' Thus the Midrash, commenting
   on the words: [5268] the souls that they had gotten in Haran,' refers
   it to the converts which Abraham had made, adding that every proselyte
   was to be regarded as if a soul had been created. [5269] [5270] To this
   we may add the pride with which Judaism looked back upon the 150,000
   Gibeonite converts said to have been made whem David avenged the sin of
   Saul; [5271] the satisfaction with which it looked forward to the times
   of Messiah as those of spontaneous conversion to the Synagogue; [5272]
   and not the unfrequent instances in which a spirit favourableto
   proselytism is exhibited in Jewish writings, [5273] as, also, such a
   saying as this, that when Israel is obedient to the will of God, He
   brings in as converts to Judaism all the just of the nations, such as
   Jethro, Rahab, Ruth, &c. [5274] But after all, may the Lord not have
   referred, not to conversion to Judaism in general, but to proselytism
   to the sect of the Pharisees, which was undoubtedly sought to the
   compassing of sea and land?

   The fourth Woe is denounced on the moral blindness of these guides
   rather than on their hypocrisy. From the nature of things it is not
   easy to understand the precise allusion of Christ. It is true that the
   Talmud makes the strangest distinction between an oath or adjuration,
   such as by heaven' or by earth,' which is not supposed to be binding;
   and that by any of the letters of which Divine Being, when the oath is
   supposed to be binding. [5275] But itseems more likely that our Lord
   refers to oaths or adjurations in connection with vows, where the
   casuistry was of the most complicated kind. In general, the Lord here
   condemns the arbitrariness of all such Jewish distinctions, which, by
   attaching excessive value to the letter of an oath or vow, really
   tended to diminish its sanctity. All such distinctions argued folly and
   more blindness.

   The fifth Woe referred to one of the best-known and strangest Jewish
   ordinances, which extended the mosaic law of tithing, in most
   burdensome minuteness, even to the smallest products of the soil that
   were esculent and could be preserved, [5276] such as anise. Of these,
   according to some, not only the seeds, but, in certain cases, even the
   leaves and stalks, had to be tithed. [5277] And this, together with
   grievous omission of the weightier matters of the Law: judgement,
   mercy, and faith. Truly, this was to strain out the gnat, and swallow
   the camel!' We remember that this conscientiousness in tithing
   constituted one of the characteristics of the Pharisees; but we could
   scarcely be prepared for such an instance of it, as when the Talmud
   gravely assures us that the ass of a certain Rabbi had been so well
   trained as to refuse corn of which the tithes had not been taken!
   [5278] And experience, not only in the past but in the present, has
   only too plainly shown, that a religious zeal which expends itself on
   trifles has not room nor strength left for the weightier matters of the
   Law.

   From tithing to purification the transition was natural. [5279] It
   constituted the second grand characteristic of Pharasaic piety. We have
   seen with what punctiliousness questions of outward purity of vessels
   were discussed. But woe to the hypocrisy which, caring for the outside,
   heeded not whether that which filled the cup and platter had been
   procured by extortion or was used for excess. And, alas for the
   blindness which perceived not, that internal purity was the real
   condition of that which was outward!

   Woe similarly to another species of hypocrisy, of which, indeed, the
   preceding were but the outcome: that of outward appearance of
   righteousness, while heart and mind were full of iniquity - just as
   those annually-whited sepulchres of theirs seemed so fair outwardly,
   but within were full of dead men's bones and all uncleanness. Woe,
   lastly, to that hypocrisy which built and decorated sepulchres of
   prophets and righteous men, and by so doing sought to shelter itself
   from share in the guilt of those who had killed them. It was not
   spiritual repentance, but national pride, which actuated them in this,
   the same spirit of self-sufficiency, pride, and impenitence which had
   led their fathers to commit the murders. And were they not about to
   imbrue their hands in the blood of Him to Whom all the prophets had
   pointed? Fast were they in the Divine judgement filling up the measure
   of their fathers.

   And thicker and heavier than ever before fell the hailstorm of His
   denunciations, as He foretold the certain doom which awaited their
   national impenitence. [5280] Prophets, wise men, and scribes would be
   sent them of Him; and only murder, sufferings, and persecutions would
   await them - not reception of their message and warnings. And so would
   they become heirs of all the blood of martyred saints, from that of him
   whom Scripture records as the first one murdered, down to that last
   martyr of Jewish unbelief of whom tradition spoke in such terms -
   Zechariah, [5281] stoned by the king's command in the Court of the
   Temple, [5282] whose blood, as legend had it, did not dry up those two
   centuries and a half, but still bubbled on the pavement, when
   Nebuzar-adan entered the Temple, and at last avenged it. [5283]

   And yet it would not have been Jesus, if, while denouncing certain
   judgement on them who, by continuance and completion of the crimes of
   their fathers, through the same unbelief, had served themselves heirs
   to all their guilt, He had not also added to it the passionate lament
   of a love which, even when spurned, lingered with regretful longing
   over the lost. [5284] They all knew the common illustration of the hen
   gathering her young brood for shelter, [5285] and they knew also what
   of Divine protection, blessing, and rest it implied, when they spoke of
   being gathered under the wings of the Shekhinah. Fain and often would
   Jesus have given to Israel, His people, that shelter, rest, protection,
   and blessing - but they would not. Looking around on those
   Temple-buildings - that House, it shall be left to them desolate! And
   he quitted its courts with these words, that they of Israel should not
   see Him again till, the night of their unbelief past, they would
   welcome His return with a better Hosanna than that which greeted His
   Royal Entry three days before. And this was the Farewell' and the
   parting of Israel's Messiah from Israel and its temple. Yet a Farewell
   which promised a coming again; and a parting which implied a welcome in
   the future from a believing people to a gracious, pardoning King!
     __________________________________________________________________

   [5167] St. Matt. xvi. 1.

   [5168] There seems some reference to this question put to Christ in
   what we regard as covert references to Christianity in that mysterious
   passage in the Talmud (Yoma 66 b) previously referred to (see pp. 193,
   194). Comp. the interesting dissertation of Töttermann on R. Eliezer
   ben Hyrcanos (pp. 16-18).

   [5169] In regard to the denial of the Resurrection by the Sadducees,
   and to their views generally, we refer to the sketch of the three sects
   in Book III. ch. ii.

   [5170] Hamburger (Real Encykl. vol. i. p. 125) has given the Rabbinic
   argumentation, and Wünsche (ad St. Matt. xxii. 23) has reproduced it -
   unfortunately, with the not unnatural exaggerations of Hamburger.

   [5171] Deut. xxxi. 16.

   [5172] Cant. vii. 9.

   [5173] See Sanh. 90 b, about the middle.

   [5174] Ber. R. 20.

   [5175] Sanh. 90 b lines 9 &c. from bottom.

   [5176] Sanh. 91 b.

   [5177] It is well known that the Hebrew has no future tense in the
   strict sense.

   [5178] Sanh, 90 b lines 10 and 9 from bottom.

   [5179] Sanh. 92 a.

   [5180] Hence called the os sacrum (see again in the sequel).

   [5181] Sanh. 90 b.

   [5182] Sanh. 90 b.

   [5183] Jer. Keth. 35 a.

   [5184] This was illustrated by a very apt Parable, see Sanh. 91 a and
   b.

   [5185] 1 Sam. xxviii. 14.

   [5186] Ber. R. 95, beginning.

   [5187] Is. xlii. 5.

   [5188] Ber. R. 96 towards the close.

   [5189] Ber. 60 b.

   [5190] It forms the second of the eighteen Eulogies.

   [5191] It is expressly stated in Ber. ix. 5, that the formula was
   introduced for that purpose.

   [5192] Sanh. 90 a line 4 from bottom.

   [5193] Deut. xxv. 5 &c.

   [5194] The Talmud has it that the woman must have no child at all - not
   merely no son.

   [5195] Bekhor. i. 7.

   [5196] Yebam. 39 b.

   [5197] Jer. Yebam. i.6. This seems also to have been the view of the
   School of Shammai.

   [5198] Jer. Yebam. 6 b, relates what I regard as a legendary story of a
   man who was thus induced to wed the twelve widows of his twelve
   brothers, each widow promising to pay for the expenses of one month,
   and the directing Rabbi for those of the 13th (intercalatory) month.
   But to his horror, after three years the women returned, laden with
   thirty-six children, to claim the fulfilment of the Rabbi's promise! On
   the other hand it was, however, also laid down that, if a woman had
   lost two husbands, she should not marry a third - according to others,
   if she had married three, not a fourth, as there might be some fate
   ({hebrew}) connected with her (Yeb. 64 b). On the question of the
   Levirate, from the modern Jewish standpoint, see an interesting article
   by Gutmann in Geiger's Wiss. Zeitschr. f. Jüd. Theol. vol. iv. (1839),
   pp. 61-87.

   [5199] The reproach Ye err, not knowing the Scriptures,' occurs in
   almost the same form in the discussions on the Resurrection between the
   Pharisees and the Sadducees which are recorded in the Talmud.

   [5200] St. Matt. xxii. 29, 30, and parallels.

   [5201] Through the Resurrection of Christ resurrection has become the
   gift of universal humanity. But, beyond this general gift to humanity,
   we believe that we receive in Baptism, as becoming connected with
   Christ, the inner germ of the glorious Resurrection-body. Its
   nourishment (or otherwise) depends on our personal relationship to
   Christ by faith, and is carried on through the Sacrament of His Body
   and Blood.

   [5202] Ber. 17 a, towards the end.

   [5203] Deut. xi. 9.

   [5204] The similar reference to Exod. vi. 4 by a later Rabbi seems but
   an adaptation of the argument of Gamaliel II. (See both in Sanh. 90 b.)

   [5205] We also recall that Gamaliel II. was the brother-in-law of that
   Eliezer b. Hyrcanos, who was rightly suspected of leanings towards
   Christinaity (see pp. 193, 194). This might open up a most interesting
   field of inquiry.

   [5206] phmose (St. Matt. xxii. 34). The word occurs also in St. Matt
   xxii. 12: St. Mark i. 25; iv. 39; St. Luke iv. 35: 1 Cor. ix. 9; 1 Tim.
   v. 18; 1 Peter. ii 16.

   [5207] Comp. the two accounts in St. Matthew xxii. 34-40 and in St.
   Mark xii. 28-34.

   [5208] Ab. ii. 1; iv. 2.

   [5209] Sanh. xi. 3.

   [5210] Deb. R. 6.

   [5211] St. Mark xii. 28.

   [5212] Meyer rightly remarks on the use of gapseis here, implying moral
   high estimation and corresponding conduct, and not philen, which refers
   to love as an affection. The latter could not have been commanded,
   although such phila of the world is forbidden (St. James iv. 4) while
   the philen of one's own psuch (St. John xii. 25) and the m philen tn
   krio (1 Cor. xvi. 22) are stigmatised.

   [5213] St. Matt. xxii 4.

   [5214] The Jewish view of these commands has been previously explained.

   [5215] St. Mark xii. 33, 34.

   [5216] This also shows that the later dogma of Messiah the Son of
   Joseph had not yet been invented.

   [5217] Comp. Appendix IX.

   [5218] St. Matt. xxii. 46.

   [5219] St. Matt. xxiii.

   [5220] St. Luke xi. 37-54.

   [5221] Rosh haSh. ii. 9.

   [5222] Even the literal charge of teaching and not doing is brought in
   Jewish writings (see, for example, Ber. R. 34).

   [5223] St. Matt. xxiii. 3, 4.

   [5224] vv. 5-7.

   [5225] vv. 8-12.

   [5226] See especially Jer. Ber. i. 7, p. 3 b.

   [5227] Ab. iii. 11.

   [5228] B. Kama 79 b.

   [5229] Jer. Sanh. 30 a. at bottom

   [5230] Nidd. 66 a.

   [5231] So notably in the well-known eighteen points' {hebrew} Ab. Sar.
   36 a.

   [5232] Twenty-four such are mentioned. Jer. Bets. 60 b.

   [5233] Many, very many of them are so utterly trivial and absurd, that
   only the hairsplitting ingenuity of theologians can account for them:
   others so profane that it is difficult to understand how any religion
   could co-exist with them. Conceive, for example, tow schools in
   controversy whether it was lawful to kill a louse on the Sabbath.
   (Schabb. 12 a; 107 b.)

   [5234] Sot. 21 b.

   [5235] vol. i. p. 101.

   [5236] On the Tephillin, comp. Sketches of Jewish Scoial Life,' pp.
   219-244.

   [5237] Jer. Ber. 4 c, lines 7 and 8 from top.

   [5238] Menach 37 b.

   [5239] Makk. 24 a.

   [5240] These titles are put in the mouth of King Jehoshaphat when
   saluting the Rabbis.

   [5241] Horay, 13 b.

   [5242] Babha B. 120 a.

   [5243] Ber. 27 b.

   [5244] Jer. Ber. 9 a, about the middle. Comp. Levy. Neuheber. Wörterb,
   ii. 10 a.

   [5245] Jer. Ber. 9 a, about the middle.

   [5246] u. s.

   [5247] Jer. Sanh x. 1.

   [5248] Pes. 53 b.

   [5249] Gitt. 62 a.

   [5250] Horay. 13 a.

   [5251] Sanh.90 b line 3 from top.

   [5252] See for example Bahba Mets 85 b and 86 a.

   [5253] Ber. R. 96. towards close

   [5254] Babha Mets 86 a.

   [5255] See the quotations to that effect in Schöttgen, Wetstein, and
   Wünsche ad loc.

   [5256] Hac clausula (ver. 11) ostendit, senon sophistice litigasse de
   vocibus, serem points spectasse (Calvin).

   [5257] St. Mark ix. 35; St. Luke xiv. 11; xviii. 14.

   [5258] Keim argues at length, but very inconclusively, that this is a
   different Discourse, addressed to a different audience and at a
   different time.

   [5259] St. Matt. xxiii. 13-33.

   [5260] Although St. Matt. xxiii. 14 is in all probability spurious,
   this woe' occurs in St. Mark xii. 40, and in St. Luke xx. 47.

   [5261] Ber. 32 b; Yoma 29 a.

   [5262] Sot. 21 b; comp. Jer. Sot. 19 a.

   [5263] Horay, 13 a.

   [5264] Yeb. 47 a. b; Nidd. 13 b.

   [5265] Tacit. Hist. v. 5; Seneca in August. De Civit. Dei vi. 11(2).

   [5266] For passages in proof see Wetsein ad loc.

   [5267] Ant. xviii. 3. 5; xx. 2, 4; Jewish War ii.17. 10 &c.; 20, 2;
   Life 23.

   [5268] Gen. xii. 5.

   [5269] Ber. R. 39, ed. Warsh. p. 72 a, and Vayy. R. 1.

   [5270] Anyone who would see how Jewish ingenutiy can, for the purpose
   of misrepresenting the words of Christ, put a meaning even on Jewish
   documents which they can never bear, is advised to read the remarks of
   the learned Jellinek on St. Matt. xxiii, 15, in the Beth ha-Midr. vol.
   v. pp. xlvi. xlvii., and his rendering of the quotation from Ber. R.
   28.

   [5271] 2 Sam. xxi. 1 &c.; Yebam, 79 a.

   [5272] Ab. Zar. 24 a.

   [5273] The learned Danzius has collected all that can be said on that
   subject in Meuschan, Nov. Test. exTalm. illustr., pp. 649-666. But in
   my opinion he exaggerates his case.

   [5274] Midr. on Eccl. v. 11.

   [5275] Shebh. iv. 13 and 35 b, 36 a.

   [5276] Maaser, i. 1.

   [5277] Maaser. iv. 5.

   [5278] Jer. Dem. 21d.

   [5279] Keim, with keen insight, characterises the Woes which contrasts
   their proselytising with their resistance to the progress of the
   Kingdom; then, the third and fourth which denounce their false
   teaching, the fifth, and sixth their false attempts at purity, while
   the last sets forth their relations to those forerunners of Christ,
   whose graves they built.

   [5280] vv. 34-36.

   [5281] We need scarcely remind the reader that this Zechariah was the
   son of Jehoiada. The difference in the text of St. Matthew may either
   be due to family circumstances, unknown to us, which might admit of his
   designation as the son of Barachias' (the reading is undoubtedly
   correct), or an error may have crept into the text - how, we know not,
   and it is of little moment. There can be no question that the reference
   is to this Zecharias. It seems scarcely necessary to refer to the
   strange notion that the notice in St. matt. xxiii, 35 has been derived
   from the account of the murder of Zacharias, the son of Baruch, in the
   Temple during the last seige (Jos. War. iv. 5. 4). To this there are
   the following foru objections: (1) Baruch (as in Jos.) and Barachias
   (as in St. Matt.) are quite different names, in Greek as in Hebrew -
   {hebrew}, blessed,' Baroch, and {hebrew} Jehovah will bless,' Barachas.
   Comp. for ex. LXX., Neh. iii. 20 with iii. 30. (2) Because the place of
   their slaughter was different, that of the one between the porch and
   the altar,' that of the other in the midst (n mp) of the Temple' -
   either the court of the women, or that of the Israelites. (3) Because
   the murder of the Zacharias referred to by St. Matt. stood out as the
   crowning national crime, and as such is repeatedly referred to in
   Jewish legend (see references in margin), and dwelt upon with many
   miraculous embellishments (4) Because the clumsiest forger would
   scarcely have put into the mouth of Jesus an event connected with the
   last siege of Jerusalem and derived from Josephus. In general, we take
   this opportunity strongly to assert that only unacquaintance with the
   whole subject could lead anyone to look to Josephus for the source of
   any part of the evangelic narrative. To these remarks we have to add
   that precisely the same error (if such it be) as in our text of St.
   Matthew occurs in the Targum on Lament. ii. 20, where this Zechariah is
   designated the son (= grandson) of Iddo,' comp. Ezr. v. 1, and Zech. i.
   1, 7. For the correct reading (son of Jehoiada') in the Gospel of the
   Hebrews,' comp. Nicholson, p. 59.

   [5282] 2 Chron. xxiv. 20-22.

   [5283] Sanh. 96 b; Gitt, 57 b; also in the Midr. on Eccl. iii. 16 and
   x. 4. and on Lament. ii. 2, and iv. 14.

   [5284] vv. 37-39.

   [5285] Vayyik. R. 25.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER V.
THE THIRD DAY IN PASION-WEEK - THE LAST SERIES OF PARABLES: TO THE PHARISEES AND
TO THE PEOPLE - ON THE WAY TO JERUSALEM: THE PARABLE OF THE LABOURERS IN THE
VINEYARD - IN THE TEMPLE: THE PARABLE OF THE NO' AND YES' OF THE TWO SONS - THE
PARABLE OF THE EVIL HUSBANDMEN EVILLY DESTROYED - THE PARABLE OF THE MARRIAGE OF
THE KING'S SON AND OF THE WEDDING GARMENT

   (ST. Matt. xix. 30, xx. 16; St. Matt. xxi. 28-32; St. Mark xii. 1-12;
   St. Luke xx. 9-19; St. Matt. xxii. 1-14.)

   ALTHOUGH it may not be possible to mark their exact succession, it will
   be convenient here to group together the last series of Parables. Most,
   if not all of them, were spoken on that third day in Passion week: the
   first four to a more general audience; the last three (to be treated in
   another chapter) to the disciples, when, on the evening of that third
   day, on the Mount of Olives, [5286] He told them of the Last Things.'
   They are the Parables of Judgment, and in one form or another treat of
   the End.'

   1. The Parable of the Labourers in the Vineyard. [5287] As treating of
   the End,' this Parable evidently belongs to the last series, although
   it may have been spoken previously to Passion-Week, perhaps on that
   Mission-journey in Peræa, in connection with which it is recorded by
   St. Matthew. At any rate, it stands in internal relation with what
   passed on that occasion, and must therefore be studied with reference
   to it.

   We remember, that on the occasion of the rich young ruler's failure to
   enter the Kingdom, to which he was so near, Christ had uttered an
   earnest warning on the danger of riches.' [5288] In the low spiritual
   stage which the Apostles had as yet attained, it was, perhaps only
   natural that Peter should, as spokesman of the rest, have, in a kind of
   spiritual covetousness, clutched at the promised reward, and that in a
   tone of self-righteousness he should have reminded Christ of the yet
   part of what He, the Lord. had always to bear, and bore so patiently
   and lovingly, from their ignorance and failure to understand Him and
   His work. And this want of true sympathy, this constant contending with
   the moral dulness even of those nearest to Him, must have been part of
   His great humiliation and sorrow, one element in the terrible
   solitariness of His Life, which made Him feel that, in the truest
   sense, the Son of Man had not where to lay His Head.' And yet we also
   mark the wondrous Divine generosity which, even in moments of such sore
   disappointment, would not let Him take for nought what should have been
   freely offered in the gladsome service of grateful love. Only there was
   here deep danger to the disciples: danger of lapsing into feelings
   kindred to those with which the Pharisees viewed the pardoned
   Publicans, or th elder son in the Parable his younger brother; danger
   of misunderstanding the right relations, and with it the very character
   of the Kingdom, and of work in and for it. It is to this that the
   Parable of the Labourers in the Vineyard refers.

   The principle which Christ lays down is, that, while nothing done for
   Him shall lose its rewared, yet, from one reason or another, no
   forecast can be made, no inferences of self-righteousness may be drawn.
   It does not by any means follow, that most work done, at least, to our
   seeing and judging, shall entail a greater reward. On the contrary,
   many that are first shall be last; and the last shall be first.' Not
   all, not yet always and necessarily, but many.' And in such cases no
   wrong has been done; there exists no claim, even in view of the
   promises of due acknowledgement of work. Spiritual pride and
   self-assertion can only be the outcome either of misunderstanding God's
   relation to us, or else of a wrong state of mind towards others; [5289]
   - that is, it betokens mental or moral unfitness.

   Of this the Parable of the Labourers is an illustration. It teaches
   nothing beyond this. [5290] But, while illustrating how it may come
   that some who were first are last,' and how utterly mistaken or wrong
   is the thought that they must necessarily receive more than others,
   who, seemingly, have done more - how, in short, work for Christ is not
   a ponderable quantity, so much for so much, nor yet we the judges of
   when and why a worker has come - it also conveys much that is new, and,
   in many respects, most comforting.

   We mark, first, the bearing of the householder, who went out
   immediately, at earliest morn (ma pro), to hire labourers into his
   vineyard.' That he did not send his steward, but went himself, [5291]
   and with the dawn of morning, shows both that there was much work to
   do, and the householder's anxiety to have it done. That householder is
   God, and the vineyard His Kingdom; the labourers, whom with earliest
   morning He seeks in the market-place of busy life, are His Servants.
   With these he agreed for a denarius a day, which was the ordianry wages
   for a day's labour, [5292] and so sent them into the vineyard; in other
   words, He told them He would pay the reward promised to labourers. So
   passed the early hours of the morning. About the third hour (the Jewish
   working day being reckoned from sunrise to sunset), that is, probably
   as it was drawing towards a close, he went out again, and, as he saw
   others' standing idle in the market-place, he said to them, Go ye also
   into the vineyard.' There was more than enough to do in that vineyard;
   enough and more to employ them. And when he came, they had stood in the
   marketplace ready and waiting to go to work, yet idle' - unemployed as
   yet. It might not have been precisely their blame that they had not
   gone before; they were others' than those in the market-place when the
   Master had first come, and they had not been there at that time. Only
   as he now sent them, he made no definite promise. They felt that in
   their special circumstances they had no claim; he told them, that
   whatsoever was right he would give them; and they implicitly trusted to
   his word, to his justice and goodness. And so happened it yet again,
   both at the sixth and at the ninth hour of the day. We repeat, that in
   none of these instances was it the guilt of the labourers - in the
   sense of being due to their unwillingness or refusal - that they had
   not before gone into the vineyard. For some reason - perhaps by their
   fault, perhaps not, they had not been earlier in the market-place. But
   as soon as they were there and called, they went, although, of course,
   the loss of time, however caused, implied loss of work. Neither did the
   Master in any case make, nor they ask for, other promise than that
   implied in his word and character.

   These four things, then, stand out clearly in the Parable: the
   abundance of work to be done in the vineyard; th anxiety of the
   householder to secure all available labourers; the circumstance that,
   not from unwillingness or refusal, but because they had not been there
   and available, the labourers had come at later hours; and that, when
   they had so come, they were ready to go into the vineyard without
   promise of definite reward, simply trusting to the truth and goodness
   of him whom they went to serve. We think here of those last,' the
   Gentiles from the east, west, north, and south; [5293] of the converted
   publicans and sinners; of those, a great part of whose lives has, alas!
   been spent somewhere else, and who have only come at a late hour into
   the market-place; nay, of them also whose opportunities, capacity,
   strength, or time have been very limited - and we thank God for the
   teaching of this Parable. And if doubt should still exist, it must be
   removed by the concluding sentences of this part of the Parable, in
   which the householder is represented as going out at the last hour,
   when, finding others standing [5294] he asks them why they stood there
   all the day idle, to which they reply, that no man had hired them.
   These also are, in turn, sent into the vineyard, though apparently
   without any expressed promise at all. [5295] It thus appears, that in
   proportion to the lateness of their work was the felt absence of any
   claim on the part of the labourers, and their simple reliance on their
   employer.

   And now it is even. The time for working is past, and the Lord of the
   vineyard bids His Steward [here the Christ] pay His labourers. But here
   the first surprise awaits them. The order of payment is the inverse of
   that of labour: beginning from the last unto the first.' This is almost
   a necessary part of the Parable. For, if the first labourers had been
   paid first, they would either have gone away without knowing what was
   done to the last, or, if they had remained, their objection could not
   have been urged, except on the ground of manifest malevolence towards
   their neighbours. After having received their wages, they could not
   have objected that they had not received enough, but only that the
   others had received too much. But it was not the scope of the Parable
   to charge with conscious malevolence those who sought a higher reward
   or deemed themselves entitled to it. Again, we notice, as indicating
   the disposition of the later labourers, that those of the third hour
   did not murmur, because they had not got more than they of the eleventh
   hour. This is in accordance with their not having made any bargain at
   the first, but trusted entirely to the householder. But they of the
   first hour had their cupidity excited. Seeing what the others had
   received, they expected. to have more than their due. When they like
   wise received every man a denarius, they murmured, as if injustice had
   been done them. And, as mostly in like circumstances, truth and
   fairness seemed on their side. For, selecting the extreme case of the
   eleventh hour labourers, had not the Householder made those who had
   wrought [5296] only one hour equal to them who had borne the burden of
   the day and the heat?' Yet, however fair their reasoning might seem,
   they had no claim in truth or equity, for had they not agreed for one
   denarius with him? And it had not even been in the general terms of a
   day's wages, but they had made the express bargain of one denarius.
   They had gone to work with a stipulated sum as their hire distinctly in
   view. They now appealed to justice; but from first to last they had had
   justice. This as regards the so much for so much' principle of claim,
   law, work, and pay.

   But there was yet another aspect than that of mere justice. Those other
   labourers, who had felt that, owning to the lateness of their
   appearance, they had no claim - and, alas! which of us must not feel
   how late we have been in coming, and hence how little we can have
   wrought - had made no bargain, but trusted to the Master. And as they
   had believed, so was it unto them. Not because they made or had any
   claim - I will, however, to give unto this last, even as unto thee' -
   the word I will' (thlo) being emphatically put first to mark the good
   pleasure' of His grace as the ground of action. Such a Master could not
   have given less to those who had come when called, trusting to His
   goodness, and not in their deserts. The reward was now reckoned, not of
   work nor of debt, but of grace. [5297] In passing we also mark, as
   against cavillers, the profound accord between what negative critics
   would call the true Judaic Gospel' of St. Matthew, and what constitutes
   the very essence of the anti-Judaic teaching' of St. Paul - and we ask
   our opponents to reconcile on their theory what can only be explained
   on the ground that St. Paul, like St. Matthew, was the true disciple of
   the true Teacher, Jesus Christ.

   But if all is to be placed on the new ground of grace, with which,
   indeed, the whold bearing of the later labourers accords, then (as St.
   Paul also shows) the laboureres who murmured were guilty either of
   ignorance in failing to perceive the sovereignty of grace - that it is
   within His power to do with His own as He willeth [5298] - or else of
   malevolence, when, instead of with grateful joy, they looked on with an
   evil eye - and this in proportion as the Householder' was good. But
   such a state of mind may be equally that of the Jews, [5299] and of the
   Gentiles. [5300] And so, in this illustrative case of the Parable, the
   first shall be last, and the last first.' [5301] And in other instances
   also, though not in all - many shall be last that are first; and first
   that are last.' [5302] But He is the God, Sovereign in grace, in Whose
   Vineyard there is work to do for all, however limited their time,
   power, or opportunity; Whose laboureres we are, if His Children; Who,
   in His desire for the work, and condescension and patience towards the
   workers, goeth out into the market-place even to the eleventh hour,
   and, with only gentlest rebuke for not having earlier come thither and
   thus lost our day in idleness, still, even to the last, bids us come;
   Who promises what is right, and gives far more than is due to them who
   simply trust Him: the God not of the Jews nor of the Gentiles only, but
   our Father; the God Who not only pays, but freely gives of His own, and
   in Whose Wisdom and by Whose Grace it may be, that, even as the first
   shall be last, so the last shall be first.

   Another point still remains to be noticed. If anywhere, we expect in
   these Parables, addressed to the people, forms of teaching and speaking
   with which they were familiar - in other words, Jewish parallels. But
   we equally expect that the teaching of Christ, while conveyed under
   illustrations with which the Jews were familiar, would be entirely
   different in spirit. And such we find it notably in the present
   instances. To begin with, according to Jewish Law, if a man engaged a
   labourer without any definite bargain, but on the statement that he
   would be paid as one or another of the labourers in the place, he was,
   according to some, only bound to pay the lowest wages in the place;
   but, according to the majority, the average between the lowest and the
   highest. [5303] [5304] Again, as regards the letter of the Parable
   itself, we have a remarkable parallel in a funeral oration on a Rabbi,
   who died at the early age of twenty-eight. The text chosen was: The
   sleep of a labouring man is sweet,' [5305] and this was illustrated by
   a Parable of a king who had a vineyard, and engaged many labourers to
   work in it. One of them was distinguished above the rest by his
   ability. So the king took him by the hand, and walked up and down with
   him. At even, when the labourers were paid, this one received the same
   wages as the others, just as if he had wrought the whole day. Upon this
   the others murmured, because he who had wrought only two hours had
   received the same as they who had laboured the whole day, when the king
   replied: Why murmur ye? This labourer has by his skill wrought as much
   in two hours as you during the whole day.' [5306] This in reference to
   the great merits of the deceased young Rabbi.

   But it will be observed that, with all its similarity of form, the
   moral of the Jewish Parable is in exactly the opposite direction from
   the teaching of Christ. The same spirit of work and pay breathes in
   another Parable, which is intended to illustrate the idea that God had
   not revealed the reward attaching to each commandment, in order that
   men might not neglect those which brought less return. A king - so the
   Parable runs - had a garden, for which he hired labourers without
   telling them what their wages would be. In the evening he called them,
   and, having ascertained from each under what tree he had been working,
   he paid them according to the value of the trees on which they had been
   engaged. And when they said that he ought to have told them, which
   trees would bring the labourers most pay, the king replied that thereby
   a great part of his garden would have been neglected. So had God in
   like manner only revealed the reward of the greatest of the
   commandments, that to honour father and mother, [5307] and that of the
   least, about letting the mother-bird fly away [5308] - attaching to
   both precisely the same reward. [5309]

   To these, if need were, might be added other illustrations of that
   painful reckoning about work, or else sufferings, and reward, which
   characterises Jewish theology, as it did those labourers in the
   Parable. [5310]

   2. The second Parable in this series - or perhaps rather illustration -
   was spoken within the Temple. The Savior had been answering the
   question of the Pharisees as to His authority by an appeal to the
   testimony of the Baptist. This led Him to refer to the twofold
   reception of that testimony - on the one hand, by the Publicans and
   harlots, and, on the other, by the Pharisees.

   The Parable, [5311] which now follows, introduces a man who has two
   sons. He goes to the first, and in language of affection (tknon) bids
   him go and work in his vineyard. The son curtly and rudely refuses; but
   afterwards he changes his mind [5312] and goes. [5313] Meantime the
   father, when refused by the one, has gone to his other son on the same
   errand. The contrast here is marked. The tone is most polite, and the
   answer of the son contains not only a promise, be we almost see him
   going: I, sir! - and he did not go.' The application was easy. The
   first son represented the Publicans and harlots, whose curt and rude
   refusal of the Father's call was implied in their life of reckless sin.
   But afterwards they changed their mind - and went into the Father's
   vineyard. The other Son, with his politeness of tone and ready promise,
   but utter neglect of obligations undertaken, represented the Pharisees
   with their hypocritical and empty professions. And Christ obliged them
   to make application of the Parable. When challenged by the Lord, which
   of the two had done the will of his father, they could not avoid the
   answer. Then it was that, in language equally stern and true. He
   pointed the moral. The Baptist had come preaching righteousness, and,
   while the self-righteous Pharisees had not believed him, those sinners
   had. And yet, even when the Pharisees saw the effect on these former
   sinners, they changed not their minds that they might believe.
   Therefore the Publicans and harlots would and did go into the Kingdom
   before them.

   3. Closely connected with the two preceding Parables, and, indeed, with
   the whole tenor of Christ's sayings at that time, is that about the
   Evil Husbandmen in the Vineyard. [5314] As in the Parable about the
   Labourers sought by the Householder at different times, the object here
   is to set forth the patience and goodness of the owner, even towards
   the evil. And as, in the Parable of the Two Sons, reference is made to
   the practical rejection of the testimony of the Baptist by the Jews,
   and their consequent self-exclusion from the Kingdom, so in this there
   is allusion to John as greater than the prophets, [5315] to the
   exclusion of Israel as a people from their position in the Kingdom,
   [5316] and to their punishment as individuals. [5317] Only we mark here
   a terrible progression. The neglect and non-belief which had appeared
   in the former Parable have now ripened into rebellion, deliberate,
   aggravated, and carried to its utmost consequences in the murder of the
   King's only and loved Son. Similarly, what formerly appeared as their
   loss, in that sinners went into the Kingdom of God before them, is now
   presented alike as their guilt and their judgment, both national and
   individual.

   The Parable opens, like that in Is. v., with a description of the
   complete arrangements made by the Owner of the Vineyard, [5318] to show
   how everything had been done to ensure a good yield of fruit, and what
   right the Owner had to expect at least a share in it. In the Parable,
   as in the prophecy, the Vineyard represents the Theocracy, although in
   the Old Testament, necesaary, as identified with the nation of Israel,
   [5319] while in the Parable the two are distinguished, and the nation
   is represented by the labourers to whom the Vineyeard was let out.'
   Indeed, the whole structure of the Parable shows, that the husbandmen
   are Israel as a nation, although they are addressed and dealt with in
   the persons of their representatives and leaders. And so it was spoken
   to the people,' [5320] and yet the chief priests and Pharisees' rightly
   perceived that He spake of them.' [5321]

   This vineyard the owner had let out to husbandmen, while he himself
   travelled away' [abroad], as St. Luke adds, for a long time.' From the
   language it is evident, that the husbandmen had the full management of
   the vineyard. We remember, that there were three modes of dealing with
   land. According to one of these (Arisuth), the labourers' employed
   received a certaain portion of the fruits, say, a third or fourth of
   the produce. [5322] In such cases it seems, at least sometimes, to have
   been the practice, besides giving them a proportion of the produce, to
   provide also the seed (for a field) and to pay wages to the labourers.
   [5323] The other two modes of letting land were, either that the tenant
   paid a money rent to the proprietor, [5324] or else that he agreed to
   give the owner a definite amount of produce, whether the harvest had
   been good or bad. [5325] Such leases were given by the year or for
   life: sometimes the lease was even hereditary, passing from father to
   son. [5326] There can scarcely be a doubt that it is the latter kind of
   lease (Chakhranutha, from {hebrew}) which is referred to in the
   Parable, the lessees being bound to give the owner a certain amount of
   fruits in their season.

   Accordingly, when the time of the fruits drew near, he sent his
   servants to the husbandmen to receive his fruits' - the part of them
   belonging to him, or, as St. Mark and St. Luke express it, of the
   fruits of the vineyard.' We gather, that it was a succession of
   servants, who received increasingly ill treatment from them evil
   husbandmen. We might have expected that the owner would now have taken
   severe measures; but instead of this he sent, in his patience and
   goodness, other servants' - not more,' [5327] which would scarcely have
   any meaning, but greater than the first,' no doubt, with the idea that
   their greater authority would command respect. And when these also
   received the same treatment, we must regard it as involving, not only
   additional, but increased guilt on the part of the husbandmen. Once
   more, and with deepening force, does the question arise, what measures
   the owner would now take. But once more we have only a fresh and still
   greater display of his patience and unwillingness to believe that these
   husbandmen were so evil. As St. Mark pathetically put it, indicating
   not only the owner's goodness, but the spirit of determined rebellion
   and the wickedness of the husbandmen: He had yet one, a beloved son -
   he sent him last unto them,' on the supposition that they would
   reverence him. The result was different. The appearance of the legal
   heir made them apprehensive of their tenure. Practically, the vineyard
   was already theirs; by killing the heir, the only claimant to it would
   be put out of the way, and so thevineyard become in every respect their
   own. For, the husbandmen proceeded on the idea, that as the owner was
   abroad' for a long time,' he would not personally interfere - an
   impression strengthened by the circumstance that he had not avenged the
   former ill-usage of his servants, but only sent others in the hope of
   influencing them by gentleness. So the labourers. taking him [the son],
   cast him forth out of the vineyard, and killed him' - the first action
   indicating that by violence they thrust him out of his possession,
   before they wickedly slew him.

   The meaning of the Parable is sufficiently plain. The owner of the
   vineyard, God, had let out His Vineyard - the Theocracy - to His people
   of old. The covenant having been instituted, He withdrew, as it were -
   the former direct communication between Him and Israel ceased. Then in
   due season He sent His Servants,' the prophets, to gather His fruits -
   they had had theirs in all the temporal and spiritual advantages of the
   covenant. But, instead of returning the fruits meet unto repentance,
   they only ill-treated His messengers, and that increasingly, even unto
   death. In His longsuffering He next sent on the same errand greater'
   than them - John the Baptist. [5328] And when he also received the same
   treatment, He sent last His own Son, Jesus Christ. His appearance made
   them feel, that it was now a decisive struggle for the Vineyard - and
   so, in order to gain its possession for themselves, they cast the
   rightful heir out of His own possession, and then killed Him!

   And they must have understood the meaning of the Parable, who had
   served themselves heirs to their fathers in the murder of all the
   prophets. [5329] who had just been convicted of the rejection of the
   Baptist's message, and whose hearts were even then full of murderous
   thoughts against the rightful Heir of the Vineyard. But, even so, they
   must speak their own judgment. In answer to His challenge, what in
   their view the owner of the vineyard would do to these husbandmen, the
   chief priests and Pharisees could only reply: As evil men evilly will
   he destroy them. And the vineyard will He let out to other husbandmen,
   which shall render Him the fruits in their season.' [5330]

   The application was obvious, and it was made by Christ, first, as
   always, by a reference to the prophetic testimony, showing not only the
   unity of all God's teaching, but also the continuity of the Israel of
   the present with that of old in their resistance and rejection of God's
   counsel and messengers. The quotation, than which none more applicable
   could be imagined, was from Ps. cxviii. 22, 23, and is made in the
   (Greek) Gospel of St. Matthew - not necessarily by Christ - from the
   LXX. Version. The only, almost verbal, difference between it and the
   original is, that, whereas in the latter the adoption of the stone
   rejected by the builders as head of the corner (this,' hoc, {hebrew})
   is ascribed to Jehovah, in the LXX. its original designation (ate) as
   head of the corner (previous to the action of the builders), is traced
   to the Lord. And then followed, in plain and unmistakable language, the
   terrible prediction, first, nationally, that the Kingdom of God would
   be taken from them, and given to a nation bringing forth the fruits
   thereof;' and then individually, that whosoever stumbled at that stone
   and fell over it, in personal offence or hostility, should be broken in
   pieces, [5331] but whosoever stood in the way of, or resisted its
   progress, and on whom therefore it fell, it would scatter Him as dust.'

   Once more was their wrath roused, but also their fears. They knew that
   He spake of them, and would fain have laid hands on Him; but they
   feared the people, who in those days regarded Him as a prophet. And so
   for the present they left Him, and went their way.

   4. If Rabbinic writings offer scarcely any parallel to the preceding
   Parable, that of the Marriage-Feast of the King's Son and the Wedding
   Garment [5332] seems alsmost reproduced in Jewish tradition. In its
   oldest form [5333] it is ascribed to Jochanan ben Zakkai, who
   flourished about the time of the composition of the Gospel of St.
   Matthew. It appears with variety of, or with additional details in
   Jewish commentaries. [5334] But while the Parable of our Lord only
   consists of two parts, [5335] forming one whole and having one lesson,
   the Talmud divides it into two separate Parables, of which the one is
   intended to show the necessity of being prepared for the next world -
   to stand in readiness for the King's feast; [5336] while the other
   [5337] is meant to teach that we ought to be able to present our soul
   to God at the last in the same state of purity in which we had
   (according to Rabbinic notions) originally received it. [5338] Even
   this shows the infinite difference between the Lord's and the Rabbinic
   use of the Parable. [5339] In the Jewish Parable a King is represented
   as inviting to a feast, [5340] without, however, fixing the exact time
   for it. The wise adorn themselves in time, and are seated at the door
   of the palace, so as to be in readiness, since, as they argue, no
   elaborate preparation for a feast can be needed in a palace; while the
   foolish go away to their work, arguing there must be time enough, since
   there can be no feast without preparation. (The Midrash has it, that,
   when inviting the guests, the King had told them to wash, anoint, and
   array themselves in their festive garments; and that the foolish,
   arguing that, from the preparation of the food and the arranging of the
   seats, they would learn when the feast was to begin, had gone, the
   mason to his cask of lime, the potter to his clay, the smith to his
   furnace, the fuller to his bleaching-ground.) But suddenly comes the
   King's summons to the feast, when the wise appear festively adorned,
   and the King rejoices over them, and they are made to sit down, eat and
   drink; while he is wroth with the foolish, who appear squalid, and are
   ordered to stand by and look on in anguish, hunger and thirst.

   The other Jewish Parable [5341] is of a king who committed to his
   servants the royal robes. The wise among them carefully laid them by
   while the foolish put them on when they did their work. After a time
   the king asked back the robes, when the wise could restore them clean,
   while the foolish had them soiled. Then the king rejoiced over the
   wise, and, while the robes were laid up in the treasury, they were
   bidden go home in peace. But to the foolish he commanded that the robes
   should be handed over to the fuller, and that they themselves should be
   cast into prison.' We readily see that the meaning of this Parable was,
   that a man might preserve His soul perfectly pure, and so enter into
   peace, while the careless, who had lost their orginal purity (no
   original sin here), would, in the next world, by suffering, both
   expiate their guilt and purify their souls.

   When, from these Rabbinic preversions, we turn to the Parable of our
   Lord, its meaning is not difficult to understand. The King made a
   marriage [5342] for his Son, when he sent his Servants to call them
   that were bidden to the wedding. Evidently, as in the Jewish Parable,
   and as before in that of the guests invited to the Great Supper, [5343]
   a preliminary general invitation had preceded the announcement that all
   was ready. Indeed, in the Midrash on Lament. iv. 2, [5344] it is
   expressly mentioned among other distinctions of the inhabitants of
   Jerusalem, that none of them went to a feast till the invitation had
   been given and repeated. But in the Parable those invited would not
   come. It reminds us both of the Parable of the labourers for the
   Vineyard, sought at different times, and of the repeated sending of
   messengers to those Evil Husbandmen for the fruits that were due, when
   we are next told that the king sent forth other servants to tell them
   to come, for he had made ready his early meal' (riston, not dinner,' as
   in the Authorised and Revised Version), and that, no doubt with a view
   to the later meal, the oxen and fatlings were killed. These repeated
   endeavours to call, to admonish, and to invite, form a characteristic
   feature of these Parables, showing that it was one of the central
   objects ot our Lord's teaching to exhibit the longsuffering and
   goodness of God. Instead of giving heed to these repeated and pressing
   calls, in the words of the Parable: but they (the one class) made light
   of it, and went away, the one to his own land, the other unto his own
   merchandise.'

   So the one class; the other made not light of it, but acted even worse
   than the first. But the rest laid hands on his servants, entreated them
   shamefully, and killed them.' By this we are to understand, that, when
   the servants came with the second and more pressing message, the one
   class showed their contempt for the king, the wedding of his son, and
   the feast, and their preference for and preoccupation with their own
   possessions or acquisitions - their property or their trading, their
   enjoyments or their aims and desires. And, when these had gone, and
   probably the servants still remanied to plead the message of their
   Lord, the rest evil entreated, and then killed them - proceeding beyond
   mere contempt, want of interest, and preoccupation with their own
   affairs, to hatred and murder. The sin was the more aggravated that he
   was their king, and the messengers had invited them to a feast, and
   that one in which every loyal subject should have rejoiced to take
   part. Theirs was, therefore, not only murder, but also rebellion
   against their sovereign. On this the King, in his wrath sent forth his
   armies, which - and here the narrative in point of time anticipates the
   event - destroyed the murderers, and burnt their city. [5345]

   But the condign punishment of these rebels forms only part of the
   Parable. For it still leaves the wedding unprovided with guests, to
   sympathise with the joy of the king, and partake of his feast. And so
   the narrative continues: [5346] Then' - after the king had given
   commandment for his armies to go forth, he said to his servants, The
   wedding indeed is ready, but they that were bidden were not worthy. Go
   ye therefore into the partings of the highways (where a number of roads
   meet and cross), and, as many as ye shall find, bid to the marriage.'
   We remember that the Parable here runs parallel to that other, when
   first the outcasts from the city-lanes, and then the wanderers on the
   world's highway, were brought in to fill the place of the invited
   guests. [5347] At first sight it seems as if there were no connection
   between the declaration that those who had been bidden had proved
   themselves unworthy, and the direction to go into the crossroads and
   gather any whom they might find, since the latter might naturally be
   regarded as less likely to prove worthy. Yet this is one of the main
   points in the Parable. The first invitation had been sent to selected
   guests - to the Jews - who might have been expected to be worthy,' but
   had proved themselves unworthy; the next was to be given, not to the
   chosen city or nation, but to all that travelled in whatever direction
   on the world's highway, reaching them where the roads of life meet and
   part.

   We have already in part anticipated the interpretation of this Parable.
   The Kingdom' is here, as so often in the Old and in the New Testament,
   likened to a feast, and more specifically to a marriage-feast. But we
   mark as distinctive, that the King makes it for His Son, Thus Christ,
   as Son and Heir of the Kingdom, forms the central Figure in the
   Parable. This is the first point set before us. The next is, that the
   chosen, invited guests were the ancient Covenant-People - Israel. To
   them God had sent first under the Old Testament. And, although they had
   not given heed to His call, yet a second class of messengers was sent
   to them under the New Testament. And the message of the latter was,
   that the early meal' was ready (Christ's first coming), and that all
   preparations had been made for the great evening-meal (Christ's Reign).
   Another prominent truth is set forth in the repeated message of the
   King, which points to the goodness and longsuffering of God. Next, our
   attention is drawn to the refusal of Israel, which appears in the
   contemptuous neglect and preoccupation with their things of one party,
   and the hatred, resistance, and murder by the other. Then follow in
   quick succesion the command of judgement on the nation, and the burning
   of their city - God's army being, in this instance, the Romans - and,
   finally, the direction to go into the crossways to invite all men,
   alike Jews and Gentiles.

   With verse 10 begins the second part of the Parable. The Servants' -
   that is, the New Testament messengers - had fulfilled their commission;
   they had brought in as many as they found, both bad and good: that is,
   without respect to their previous history, or their moral and religious
   state up the time of their call; and the wedding was filled with
   guests' - that is, the table at the marriage-feast was filled with
   those who as guests lay around it' (nakeimnon). But, if ever we are to
   learn that we must not expect on earth - not even at the King's
   marriage-table - a pure Church, it is, surely, from what now follows.
   The King entered to see His guests, and among them he described one of
   who had not on a wedding garment. Manifestly, the quickness of the
   invitation and the previous unpreparedness. As the guests had been
   travellers, and as the feast was in the King's palace, we cannot be
   mistaken in supposing that such garments were supplied in the palace
   itself to all those who sought them. And with this agrees the
   circumstance, that the man so addressed was speechless' [literally,
   gagged,' or muzzled']. [5348] His conduct argued utter insensibility as
   regarded that to which he had been called - ignorance of what was due
   to the King, and what became such a feast. For, although no previous
   state of preparedness was required of the invited guests, all being
   bidden, whether good or bad, yet the fact remained that, if they were
   to take part in the feast, they must put on a garment suited to the
   occasion. All are invited to the Gospel-feast; but they who will
   partake of it must put on the King's wedding-garment of Evangelical
   holiness. And whereas it is said in the Parable, that only one was
   described without this garment, this is intended to teach, that the
   King will only generally view His guests, but that each will be
   separately examined, and that no one - no, not a single individual -
   will be able to escape discovery amidst the mass of guests, if he has
   not the wedding-garment.' In short, in that day of trial, it is not a
   scrutiny of Churches, but of individuals in the Church. And so the King
   bade the servants - diaknois - not the same who had previously carried
   the invitation (dolois), but others - evidently here the Angels, His
   ministers,' to bind him hand and foot, and to cast him out into the
   darkness, the outer' - that is, unable to offer resistance and as a
   punished captive, he was to be cast out into that darkness which is
   outside the brilliantly lighted guest-chamber of the King. And, still
   further to mark that darkness outside, it is added that this is the
   well-known place of suffering and anguish: There shall be the weeping
   and the gnashing of teeth.'

   And here the Parable closes with the general statement, applicable
   alike to the first part of the Parable - to the first invited guests,
   Israel - and to the second, the guests from all the world: For' (this
   is the meaning of the whole Parable) many are called, but few chosen.'
   [5349] For the understanding of these words we have to keep in view
   that, logically, the two clauses must be supplemented by the same
   words. Thus, the verse would read: Many are called out of the world by
   God to partake of the Gospel-feast, but few out of the world - not, out
   of the called - are chosen by God to partake of it. The call to the
   feast and the choice for the feast are not identical. The call comes to
   all; but it may outwardly accepted, and a man may sit down to the
   feast, and yet he may not be chosen to partake of the feast, because he
   has not the wedding-garment of converting, sanctifying grace. And so
   one may be thrust from the marriage-board into the darkness without,
   with its sorrow and anguish.

   Thus, side by side, yet wide apart, are these two - God's call and
   God's choice. The connecting-link between them is the taking of the
   wedding-garment, freely given in the Palace. Yet, we must seek it, ask
   it, put it on. And so here also, we have, side by side, God's gift and
   man's activity. And still, to all time, and to all men, alike in its
   warning, teaching, and blessing, it is true: Many are called, but few
   are chosen!'
     __________________________________________________________________

   [5286] St. Matt. xxiv. 1. St. Luke xxi. 37.

   [5287] St. Matt. xix. 30-xx. 16.

   [5288] St. Matt. xix. 23, 24.

   [5289] St. Matt. xx. 15.

   [5290] Instead of discussing the explanations of others, I prefer
   simply to expound that which I have to propose. The difficulties of the
   usual interpretations are so great that a fresh study seemed requisite.
   Our interpretation turns on this, that the Parable is only an
   illustration of what is said in St. Matt. xix. 30.

   [5291] St. Matt. xx. 1.

   [5292] In Rome, at the time of Cicero, a day-labourer received 12 as
   =about 6d. - that is, rather less than in Judæa (comp. Marquardt, Röm.
   Alterth. vol. v. p. 52).

   [5293] St. Luke xiii. 30.

   [5294] The word idle' in the second clause of ver. 6 is spurious,
   though it may, of course, be supplied from the fourth clause.

   [5295] The last clause in our T. R. and A. V. is spurious, though
   perhaps such a promise was understood.

   [5296] I prefer not rendering with Meyer and the R.V. poesan, viz.,
   ran, by spent,' but taking the verb as the Hebrew {hebrew} = wrought.'
   And the first labourers could not have meant, that the last had spent,'
   not wrought,' an hour. This were a gratuitous imputation to them of
   malevolence and calumny.

   [5297] Rom. iv. 4-6; xi. 6.

   [5298] Rom. xi.

   [5299] Rom. ii.; iii. 28-31; ix. 18-24.

   [5300] Rom. xi. 11-18.

   [5301] The clause which follows in our A.V. is spurious.

   [5302] St. Matt. xix. 30.

   [5303] Badha Mets. 87 a, towards the end.

   [5304] Some interesting illustrations of secondary importance, and
   therefore not here introduced, may be found at the close of Badha Mets.
   83 a and the beginning of b.

   [5305] Eccl. v. 12.

   [5306] Midr. on Eccl. v. 11; Jer. Ber. ii. 8.

   [5307] Ex. xx. 12.

   [5308] Deut. xxii. 7.

   [5309] Debar. R. 6 on Deut. xxii. 6.

   [5310] See, for example, Ber. 5 a and b, but especially 7 a.

   [5311] St. Matt. xxi. 28-32.

   [5312] The word is not the same as that for repent' in St. Matt. iii.
   2. The latter referes to a change of heart, and means something
   spiritual. The word used in the text means only a change of mind and
   purpose. It occurs besides in St. Matt. xxvii. 3; 2 Cor. vii. 8; Heb.
   vii. 21.

   [5313] Looking away from the very profane use made of the saying in the
   Talmud, we may quote as a literary curiosity the following as the
   origin of the proverb: He that will not when he may, when he will he
   shall have nay, {hebrew} Ber. 7 a, line 8 from bottom.

   [5314] St. Matt. xxi. 33 &c. and parallels.

   [5315] ver. 36.

   [5316] ver. 43.

   [5317] ver. 44.

   [5318] An hedge' against animals or marauders, a winepress,' or, more
   specifically (St. Mark), a winefat' (polnion), into which the juice of
   the grapes flowed, and a tower' for the watchmen and labourers
   generally. We may here remark that the differences in the narration of
   this Parable in the three Gospels are too minute for discussion here.
   The principal one, in St. Matt. xxi. 40, 41, comp. with the parallels,
   will be briefly referred to in the text.

   [5319] Is. v. 7

   [5320] St. Luke xx. 9.

   [5321] St. Matt. xxi. 45.

   [5322] Jer. Bikk. 64 b

   [5323] Shem. R. 41, ed. Warsh, p. 54 b last line.

   [5324] Tos. Demai vi.

   [5325] Babha Mets. 104 a.

   [5326] Jer. Bikk. 64 b.

   [5327] as in the A. and R. V.

   [5328] St. Luke vii. 26.

   [5329] St. Matt. xxiii. 34-36.

   [5330] St. Matt. xxi. 41.

   [5331] The only Jewish parallel, even in point of form, so far as I
   know, is in Vayy. R. 11 (ed. Warsh., p. 18 a, near beginning), where we
   read of a king who sent his treasurer to collect tribute, when the
   people of the land killed and plundered him.

   [5332] St. Matt. xxii. 1-14.

   [5333] Shabb. 153 a, and 152 b.

   [5334] Midr. on Eccles. ix. 8; Midr. on Prov. xvi. 11.

   [5335] St. Matt. xxii. 1-9 and 10-14.

   [5336] Shabb. 153 a.

   [5337] This Parable is only in the Talmud in this connection, not in
   the Midrashim.

   [5338] Shabb. 152 b.

   [5339] The reader will find both these Parables translated in Sketches
   of Jewish Social Life,' p. 179.

   [5340] In the Talmud he invites his servants; in the Midrash, others.

   [5341] Shabb.. 152 b.

   [5342] This rather than marriage-feast.'

   [5343] St. Luke xiv. 16, 17.

   [5344] ed. Warsh. p. 73 b.

   [5345] Reference is only made to that part who were murderers. Not that
   the others escaped suffering or loss, but, in accordance with the plan
   of the Parable, this is not mentioned. When we read of their city,' may
   there not here be also a reference to a commonwealth or nation?

   [5346] St. Matt. xxii. 8.

   [5347] St. Luke xiv. 21-24.

   [5348] as in St. Matt. xxii. 34; see the note on it.

   [5349] St. Matt. xxii. 14.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER VI.
THE EVENING OF THE THIRD DAY IN PASSION-WEEK - ON THE MOUNT OF OLIVES: DISCOURES
TO THE DISCIPLES CONCERNING THE LAST THINGS.

   (St. Matt. xxiv.; St. Mark xiii.; St. Luke xxi. 5-38; xii. 35-48.)

   THE last and most solemn denunciation of Jerusalem had been uttered,
   the last and most terrible prediction of judgment upon the Temple
   spoken, and Jesus was suiting the action to the word. It was as if He
   had cast the dust of His Shoes against the House' that was to be left
   desolate.' And so He quitted for ever the Temple and them that held
   office in it.

   They had left the Sanctuary and the City, had crossed black Kidron, and
   were slowly climbing the Mount of Olives. A sudden turn in the road,
   and the Sacred Building was once more in full view. Just then the
   western sun was pouring his golden beams on tops of marble cloister and
   on the terrced courts, and glittering on the golden spikes on the roof
   of the Holy Place. In the setting, even more than in the rising sun,
   must the vast proportions, the symmetry, and the sparkling sheen of
   this mass of snowy marble and gold have stood out gloriously. And
   across the black valley, and up the slopes of Olivet, lay the dark
   shadows of these gigantic walls built of massive stones, some of them
   nearly twenty-four feet long. Even the Rabbis, despite their hatred of
   Herod, grow enthusiastic, and dream that the very Temple-walls would
   have been covered with gold, had not the variegated marble, resembling
   the waves of the sea, seemed more beauteous. [5350] It was probably as
   they now gazed on all this grandeur and strength, that they broke the
   slience imposed on them by gloomy thoughts of the near desolaateness of
   that House, which the Lord had predicted. [5351] One and another
   pointed out to Him those massive stones and splendid buildings, or
   speak of the rich offerings with which the Temple was adorned. [5352]
   It was but natural that the contrast between this and the predicted
   desolation should have impressed them; natural, also, that they should
   refer to it - not as matter of doubt, but rather as of question. [5353]
   Then Jesus, probably turning to one - perhaps to the first, or else the
   principal - of His questioners, [5354] spoke fully of that terrible
   contrast between the present and the near future, when, as fulfilled
   with almost incredible literality, [5355] not one stone would be left
   upon another that was not upturned.

   In silence they pursued their way. Upon the Mount of Olives they sat
   down, right over against the Temple. Whether or not the others had gone
   farther, or Christ had sat apart with these four, Peter and James and
   John and Andrew are named [5356] as those who now asked Him further of
   what must have weighed so heavily on their hearts. It was not idle
   curiosity, although inquiry on such as subject, even merely for the
   sake of information, could scarcely have been blamed in a Jew. But it
   did concern them personally, for had not the Lord conjoined the
   desolateness of that House' with His own absence? He had explained the
   former as meaning the ruin of the City and the utter destruction of the
   Temple. But to His prediction of it had been added these words: Ye
   shall not see Me henceforth, till ye shall say, Blessed is He that
   cometh in the Name of the Lord.' In their view, this could only refer
   to His Second Coming, and to the End of the world as connected with it.
   This explains the twofold question which the four now addressed to
   Christ: Tell us, when shall these things be? and what shall be the sign
   of thy Coming, and of the consummation of the age?' [5357]

   Irrespective of other sayings, in which a distinction between these two
   events is made, we can scarely believe that the disciple could have
   conjoined the desolation of the Temple with the immediate Advent of
   Christ and the end of the world. For, in the saying which gave rise to
   their question, Christ had placed an indefinite period between the two.
   Between the desolation of the House and their new welcome to Him, would
   intervene a period of indefinate length, during which they would not
   see Him again. The disciples could not have overlooked this; and hence
   neither their question, nor yet the Discourse of our Lord, have been
   intended to conjoin the two. It is necessary to keep this in view when
   studying the words of Christ; and any different impression must be due
   to the exceeding compression in the language of St. Matthew, and to
   this, that Christ would purposely leave indefinite the interval between
   the desolation of the house' and His own Return.

   Another point of considerable importance remains to be noticed. When
   the Lord, on quitting the Temple, Said: Ye shall not see Me
   henceforth,' He must have referred to Israel in their national capacity
   - to the Jewish polity in Church and State. If so, the promise in the
   text of visible reappearence must also apply to the Jewish
   Commonwealth, to Israel in their national capacity. Accordingly, it is
   suggested that in the present passage Christ refers to His Advent, not
   from the general cosmic viewpoint of universal, but from the Jewish
   standpoint of Jewish, history, in which the destruction of Jerusalem
   and the appearance of false Christs are the last events of national
   history, to be followed by the dreary blank and silence of the many
   centuries of the Gentile dispensation,' broken and silence of the
   events that usher in His Coming. [5358]

   Keeping in mind, then, that the disciples could not have conjoined the
   desolation of the Temple with the immediate Advent of Christ into His
   Kingdom and the end of the world, their question to Christ was twofold:
   When would these things be? and, What would be the signs of His Royal
   Advent and the consummation of the Age?' On the former the Lord gave no
   information; to the latter His Discourse on the Mount of Olives was
   directed. On one point the statement of the Lord had been so novel as
   almost to account for their question. Jewish writings speak very
   frequently of the so-called sorrows of the Messiah' (Chebhley shel
   Mashiach. [5359] [5360] ) These were partly those of the Messiah, and
   partly - perhaps chiefly - those coming of the Messiah. There can be no
   purpose in describing them in detail, since the particulars mentioned
   vary so much, and the descriptions are so fanciful. But they may
   generally be characteristed as marking a period of internal corruption
   [5361] and of outward distress, especially of famine and war, of which
   land of Palestine was to be the scene, and in which Israel were to be
   the chief sufferers. [5362] As the Rabbinic notices which we posses all
   date from after the destruction of Jerusalem, it is, of course,
   impossible to make any absolute assertion on the point; but, as a
   matter of fact, none of them refers to desolattion of the City and
   Temple as one of the signs' or sorrows' of the Messiah. It is true that
   isolated voices proclaimed that fate of the Sanctuary, but not in any
   connection with the triumphant Advent of Messiah; [5363] and, if we are
   to judge from the hope entertained by the fanatics during the last
   siege of Jerusalem, they rather expected a Divine, not doubt Messianic,
   interposition to save the City and Temple, even at the last moment.
   [5364] When Christ, therefore, proclaimed the desolation of the house,'
   and even placed it in indirect connection with His Advent, He taught
   that which must have been alike new and unexpected.

   This may be the most suitable place for explaining the Jewish
   expectation connected with the Advent of the Messiah. Here we have
   first to dismiss, as belonging to a later period, the Rabbinic fiction
   of two Messiahs: the one, the primary and reigning, the Son of David;
   the other, the secondary and warfaring Messiah, the Son of Ephraim or
   of Manasseh. The earliest Talmudic reference to this second Messiah
   [5365] dates from the third century of our era, and contains the
   strange and almost blasphemous notices that the prophecy of Zechariah,
   [5366] concerning the mourning for Him Whom they had pierced, referred
   to Messiah the Son of Joseph, Who would be killed in the war of Gog and
   Magog; [5367] and that, when Messiah the Son of David saw it, He asked
   life' of God, who gave it to Him, as it is written in Ps. ii.: Ask of
   Me, and I will give Thee,' upon which God informed the Messiah that His
   father David had already asked and obtained this for Him, according to
   Ps. xxi. 4. Generally the Messiah, Son of Joseph, is connected with the
   gathering and restoration of the ten tribes. Later Rabibninc writings
   connect all the sufferngs of the Messiah for sin with this Son of
   Joseph. [5368] The war in which the Son of Joseph' succumbed would
   finally be brought to a victorious termination by the Son of David,'
   when the supremacy of Israel would be restored, and all nations walk in
   His Light.

   It is scarcely matter for surprise, that the various notices about the
   Messiah, Son of Joseph, are confused and sometimes inconsistent,
   considering the circumstances in which this dogma originated. Its
   primary reason was, no doubt, controversial. When hardly pressed by
   Christian argument about the Old Testament prophecies of the sufferings
   of the Messiah, the fiction about the Son of Joseph as distinct from
   the Son of David would offer a welcome means of escape. [5369] Besides,
   when in the Jewish rebellion [5370] under the false Messiah BarKokhba'
   (the Son of a Star' [5371] ) the latter succumbed to the Romans and was
   killed, the Synagogue deemed it necessary to rekindle Israel's hope,
   that had been quenched in blood, by the picture to two Messiahs, of
   whom the first should fall in warfare, while the second, the Son of
   David, would carry the contest to a triumphant issue. [5372]

   In general, we must here remember that there is a difference between
   three terms used in Jewish writings to designate that which is to
   succeed the present dispensation' or world' (Olam hazzeh), although the
   distinction is not always consistently carried out. This happy period
   would begin with the days of the Messiah' ({hebrew}). These would
   stretch into the coming age' (Athid labho), and end with the world to
   come' (Olam habba) - although the latter is sometimes made to include
   the whole of that period. [5373] The most divergent opinions are
   expressed of the duration of the Messianic period. It seems like a
   round number when we are told that it would last for three generations.
   [5374] In the fullness discussion on the subject, [5375] the opinions
   of different Rabbis are mentioned, who variously fix the period at form
   forty to one, two, and even seven thousands years, according to
   fanciful analogies. [5376]

   Where statements rest on such fanciful considerations, we can scarecly
   attach serious value to them, nor expect agreement. This remark holds
   equally true in regard to most of the other points involved. Suffice it
   to say, that, according to general opinion, the Birth of the Messiah
   would be unknown to His contemporaries; [5377] that He would appear,
   carry on His work, then disappear - probably for forty-five days; then
   reappear again, and destroy the hostile powers of the world, notably
   Edom,' Armilos,' the Roman Power - the fourth and last world-empire
   (sometimes it is said: through Ishmael). Ransomed Israel would now be
   miraculously gathered from the ends of the earth, and brought back to
   their own land, the ten tribes sharing in their restoration, but this
   only on condition of their having repented of their former sins. [5378]
   According to the Midrash, [5379] all circumcised Israel would then be
   released from Gehenna, and the dead be raised - according to some
   authorities, by the Messiah, to Whom God would give the Key of the
   Resurrection of the Dead.' [5380] This Resurrection would take place in
   the land of Israel, and those of Israel who had been buried elsewhere
   would have to roll under ground - not without suffering pain [5381] -
   till they reach the sacred soil. Probably the reason of this strange
   idea, which was supported by an appeal to the direction of Jocob and
   Joseph as to their last resting-place, was to induce the Jews, after
   the final desolation of their land, not to quit Palestine. This
   Ressurection, which is variously supposed to take place at the
   beginning or during the course of the Messianic manifestation, would be
   announced by the blowing of the great trumpet. [5382] [5383] It would
   be difficult to say how many of these strange and confused views
   prevailed at the time of Christ; [5384] which of them were universally
   entertained as real dogmas; or from what source they had been
   originally derived. Probably many of them were popularly entertained,
   and afterwards further developed - as we believe, with elements
   distorted from Christian teaching.

   We have now reached the period of the coming age' (the Athid labho, or
   sæculum futurum). All the resistance to God would be concentrated in
   the great war of Gog and Magog, and with it the prevalence of all the
   wickedness be conjoined. And terrible would be the straits of Israel.
   Three times would the enemy seek to storm the Holy City. But each time
   would the assault be repelled - at the last with complete destruction
   of the enemy. The sacred City would now be wholly rebuilt and
   inhabited. But oh, how different from of old! Its Sabbath-boundaries
   would be strewed with pearls and precious gems. The City itself would
   be lifted to a height of some nine miles - nay, with realistic
   application of Is. xlix. 20, it would reach up to the throne of God,
   while it would extend from Joppa as far as the gates of Damascus! For,
   Jerusalem was to be the dwelling-place of Israel, and the resort of all
   nations. But more glorious in Jerusalem would be the new Temple which
   the Messiah was to rear, and to which those five things were to be
   restored which had been wanting in the former Sanctuary; the Golden
   Candlestick, the Ark, and Heaven-lit fire on the Altar, the Holy Ghost,
   and the Cherubim. And the land of Israel would then be as wide as it
   had been sketched in the promise which God had given to Abraham, and
   which had never before been fulfilled - since the largest extent of
   Israel's rule had only been over seven nations, whereas the Divine
   promise extended it over ten, if not over the whole earth.

   Strangely realistic and exaggerated by Eastern imagination as these
   hopes sound, there is connected with them, a point of deepest interest
   on which, as explained in another place, [5385] remarkable divergence
   of opinion prevailed. It concerns the Services of the rebuilt Temple,
   and the observance of The Law in Messianic days. One party here
   insisted on the restoration of all the ancient Services, and the strict
   observance of the Mosiac and Rabbinic Law - nay, on its full imposition
   on the Gentile nation. [5386] But this view must have been at least
   modified by the expectation, that the Messiah would give a new Law.
   [5387] But was this new Law to apply only to the Gentiles, or also to
   Israel? Here again there is divergence of opinions. According to some,
   this Law would be binding on Israel, but not on the Gentiles, or else
   the latter would have a modified or condensed series of ordinances (at
   most thirty commandments). But the most liberal view, and, as we may
   suppose, that most accetptable to the enlightened, was, that in the
   furture only these two festive seasons would be observed: The Day of
   Atonment, and the Feast of Esther (or else that of Tabernacles), and
   that of all the sacrifices only thank-offerings would be continued.
   [5388] Nay, opinion went even further, and many held that in Messianic
   days the distictions of pure and impure, lawful and unlawful, as
   regarded food, would be abolished. [5389] There can be little doubt
   that these different views were entertained even in the days of our
   Lord and in Apostolic times, and they account for the exceeding
   bitterness with which the extreme Pharisaic party in the Church at
   Jerusalem contended, that the Gentile converts must be circumcised, and
   the full weight of the yoke of the Law laid on their necks. And with a
   view to this new Law, which God would give to his world through the
   Messiah, the Rabbis divided all time into three periods: the primitive,
   that under the Law, and that of the Messiah. [5390]

   It only remains briefly to describe the beatitude of Israel, both
   physical and moral, in those days, the state of the nations, and,
   lastly, the end of that age' and its merging into the world to come'
   (Olam habba). Morally, this would be a period of holiness, of
   forgiveness, and of peace. Without, there would be no longer enemies
   nor oppressors. And within the City and Land a more than Paradisiacal
   state would prevail, which is depicted in even more than the usual
   realistic Eastern language. For that vast new Jerusalem (not in heaven,
   but in the literal Palestine) Angels were to cut gems 45 feet long and
   broad (30 cubits), and place them in its gates; [5391] the windows and
   gates were to be of precious stones, the walls of silver, gold, and
   gems, while all kinds of jewels would be strewed about, of which every
   Israelite was at liberty to take. Jerusalem would be as large as, at
   present, all Palestine, and Palestine as all the world. [5392]
   Corresponding to this miraculous extension would be a miraculous
   elevation of Jerusalem into the air. [5393] And it is one of the
   strangest mixtures of self-righteousness and realism with deeper and
   more spiritual thoughts, when the Rabbis prove by references to the
   prophetic Scriptures, that every event and miracle in the history of
   Israel would find its counterpart, or rather larger fulfilment, in
   Messianic days. Thus, what was recorded of Abraham [5394] would, on
   account of his merit, find, clause by clause, its counterpart in the
   future: Let a little water be fetched,' in what is predicted in Zech.
   xiv. 8; wash your feet,' in what is predicted in Is. iv. 5; rest
   yourselves under the tree,' in what is said in Is. iv. 4; and I will
   fetch a morsel of bread,' in the promise of Ps. lxxii. 16. [5395]

   But by the side of this we find much coarse realism. The land would
   spontaneously produce the best dresses and the finest cakes; [5396] the
   wheat would grow as high as palm-trees, nay, as the mountains, while
   the wind would miraculously convert the grain into flour, and cast it
   into the valleys. Every tree would become fruit-bearing; [5397] nay,
   they were to break forth, and to bear fruit every day; [5398] daily was
   every woman to bear child, so that ultimately every Israelitish family
   would number as many as all Israel at the time of the Exodus. [5399]
   All sickness and disease, and all that could hurt, would pass away. As
   regarded death, the promise of its final abolition [5400] was, with
   characteristic ingenuity, applied to Israel, while the statement that
   the child should die an hundred years old [5401] was understood as
   referring to the Gentiles, and as teaching that, although they would
   die, yet their age would be greatly prolonged, so that a centenarian
   would be regarded as only a child. Lastly, such physical and outward
   loss as Rabbinism regarded as the consequence of the Fall, [5402] would
   be again restored to man. [5403] [5404]

   It would be easy to multiply quotations even more realistic than these,
   if such could serve any good purpose. The same literalism prevails in
   regard to the reign of King Messiah over the nations of the world. Not
   only is the figurative language of the prophets applied in the most
   external manner, but illustrative details of the same character are
   added. Jerusalem would, as the residence of the Messiah, become the
   capital of the world, and Israel take the place of the (fourth)
   world-monarchy, the Roman Empire. After the Roman Empire none other was
   to rise, for it was to be immediately followed by the reign of Messiah.
   [5405] But that day, or rather that of the fall of the (ten) Gentile
   nations, which would inaugurate the Empire of Messiah, was among the
   seven things unknown to man. [5406] Nay, God had conjured Israel not to
   communicate to the Gentiles the mystery of the calculation of the
   times. [5407] But the very origin of the wicked world-Empire had been
   caused by Israel's sin. It had been (ideally) founded [5408] when
   Solomon contracted alliance with the daughter of Pharaoh, while Romulus
   and Remus rose when Jeroboam set up the worship of the two calves.
   Thus, what would have become the universal Davidic Rule had, through
   Israel's sin, been changed into subjection to the Gentiles. Whether or
   not these Gentiles would in the Messianic future become proselytes,
   seems a moot question. Sometimes it is affirmed; [5409] at others it is
   stated that no proselytes would then be received, [5410] and for this
   good reason, that in the final war and rebellion those proselytes
   would, from fear, cast off the yoke of Judaism and join the enemies.

   That war, which seems a continuation of that Gog and Magog, would close
   the Messianic era. The nations, who had hitherto given tribute to
   Messiah, would rebel against Him, when He would destroy them by the
   breath of His mouth, so that Israel alone would be left on the face of
   the earth. [5411] The duration of that period of rebellion is stated to
   be seven years. It seems, at least, a doubtful point, whether a second
   or general Resurrection was expected, the more probable view being,
   that there was only one Resurrection, and that of Israel alone, [5412]
   or, at any rate, only of the studious and the pious, [5413] and that
   this was to take place at the beginning of the Messianic reign. If the
   Gentiles rose at all, it would only be immediately again to die. [5414]
   [5415]

   Then the final Judgment would commence. We must here once more make
   distinction between Israel and the Gentiles, with whom, nay, as more
   punishable than they, certain notorious sinners, heretics, and all
   apostates, were to be ranked. Whereas to Israel the Gehenna, to which
   all but the perfectly righteous had been consigned at death, had proved
   a kind of purgatory, from which they were all ultimately delivered by
   Abraham, [5416] or, according to some of the later Midrashim, by the
   Messiah, no such deliverance was in prospect for the heathen nor for
   sinners of Israel. [5417] The question whether the fiery torments
   suffered (which are very realistically described) would at last end in
   annihilation, is one which at different times received different
   answeres, as fully explained in another place. [5418] At the time of
   Christ the punishment of the wicked was certainly regarded as of
   eternal duration. Rabbi José, a teacher of the second century, and a
   representative of the more rationalistic school, says expressly, The
   fire of Gehinnom is never quenched.' [5419] And even the passage, so
   often (although only partially) quoted, to the effect, that the final
   torments of Gehenna would last for twelve months, after which body and
   soul would be annihilated, excepts from this a number of Jewish
   sinners, specially mentioned, such as hereties, Epicureans, apostates,
   and persecutors, who are designated as children of Gehenna' (ledorey
   doroth, to ages of ages'). [5420] And with this other statements agree,
   [5421] so that at most it would follow that, while annihilation would
   await the less guilty, the most guilty were to be reserved for etenal
   punishment.

   Such, then, was the final Judgment, to be held in the valley of
   Jehoshaphat by God, at the head of the Heavenly Sanhedrin, composed of
   the elders of Israel. [5422] Realistic as its description is, even this
   is terribly surpassed by a passage [5423] in which the supposed pleas
   for mercy by the various nations are adduced and refuted, when, after
   an unseemly contention between God and the Gentiles - equally shocking
   to good taste and blasphemous - about the partiality that had been
   shown to Israel, the Gentiles would be consigned to punishment. All
   this in a manner revolting to all reverent feeling. And the contrast
   between the Jewish picture of the last Judgment and that outlined in
   the Gospel is so striking, as alone to vindicate (were such necessary)
   the eschatological parts of the New Testament, and to prove what
   infinite distance there is between the Teaching of Christ and the
   Theology of the Synagogue.

   After the final judgment we must look for the renewal of heaven and
   earth. In the latter neither physical [5424] nor moral darkness would
   any longer prevail, since the Yetser haRa, or Evil impulse,' would be
   destroyed. [5425] [5426] And renewed earth would bring forth all
   without blemish and in Paradisiacal perfection, while alike physical
   and moral evil had ceased. Then began the Olam habba,' or world to
   come.' The question, whether any functions or enjoyments of the body
   would continue, is variously answered. The reply of the Lord to the
   question of the Sadducees about marriage in the other world seems to
   imply, that materialistic views on the subject were entertained at the
   time. Many Rabbinic passages, such as about the great feast upon
   Leviathan and Behemoth prepared for the righteous in the latter days,
   [5427] confirm only too painfully the impression of grossly
   materialistic expectations. [5428] On the other hand, passages may be
   quoted in which the utterly unmaterial character of the world to come'
   is insisted upon in most emphatic language. [5429] In truth, the same
   fundamental divergences here exist as on other points, such as the
   abode of the beatified, the visible or else invisible glory which they
   would enjoy, and even the new Jerusalem. And in regard to the latter,
   [5430] as indeed to all those references to the beatitudes of the world
   to come, it seems at least doubtful, whether the Rabbis may not have
   intended to describe rather the Messianic days than the final winding
   up of all things.

   To complete this sketch of Jewish opinions, it is necessary, however
   briefly, to refer to the Pseudepigraphic Writings, [5431] which, as
   will be remembered, expressed the Apocalyptic expectancies of the Jews
   before the time of Christ. But here we have always to keep in mind this
   twofold difficulty: that the language used in works of this kind is of
   a highly figurative character, and must therefore not be literally
   pressed; and that more than one of them, notably IV. Esdras, dates from
   post-Christian times, and was, in important respects, admittedly
   influenced by Christian teaching. But in the main the picture of
   Messianic times in these writings is the same as the presented by the
   Rabbis. Briefly, the Pseudepigraphic view may be thus sketched. [5432]
   Of the so-called Wars of the Messiah' there had been already a kind of
   prefigurement in the days of Antiochus Epiphanes, when armed soldiery
   had been seen to carry on warfare in the air. [5433] This sign is
   mentioned in the Sibylline Books [5434] as marking the coming end,
   together with the sight of swords in the starlit sky at night, the
   falling of dust from heaven, the extinction of the sunlight and
   appearance of the moon by day, and the dropping of blood from the
   rocks. A somewhat similar, though even more realistic, picture is
   presented in connection with the blast of the third trumpet in IV.
   (II.) Esdras. [5435] Only that there the element of moral judgment is
   more clearly introduced. This appears still more fully in another
   passage of the same book, [5436] in which, apparently in connection
   with the Judgment, the influence of Christian teaching, although in an
   externalised form, may be clearly traced. A perhaps even more detailed
   description of the wickedness, distress, and physical desolation upon
   earth at that time, is given in the Book of Jubilees. [5437]

   At last, when these distresses have reached their final height, when
   signs are in the sky, ruin upon earth, and the unburied bodies that
   cover the ground are devoured by birds and wild beasts, or else
   swallowed up by the earth, [5438] would God send the King,' Who would
   put an end to unrighteousness. Then would follow the last war against
   Jerusalem, in which God would fight from heaven with the nations, when
   they would submit to, and own Him. [5439] But while in the Book of
   Enoch and in another work of the same class [5440] the judgment is
   ascribed to God, and the Messiah represented as appearing only
   afterwards, [5441] [5442] in the majority of these works the judgment
   or its execution is assigned to the Messiah. [5443]

   In the land thus restored to Israel, and under the rule of King
   Messiah, the new Jerusalem would be the capital, purified from the
   heathen, [5444] enlarged, nay, quite transformed. This Jerusalem had
   been shown to Adam before his Fall, [5445] but after that both it and
   Paradise had been withdrawn from him. It had again been shown to
   Abraham, [5446] to Moses, and to Ezra. [5447] The splendour of this new
   Jerusalem is described in most glowing language. [5448] [5449] Of the
   glorious Kingdom thus instituted, the Messiah would be King, [5450]
   [5451] although under the supremacy of God. His reign would extend over
   the heathen nations. The character of their submission was differently
   viewed, according to the more or less Judaic standpoint of the writers.
   Thus, in the Book of Jubilees [5452] the seed of Jacob are promised
   possession of the whole earth; they would rule over all nations
   according to their pleasure; and after that draw the whole earth unto
   themselves, and inherit it for ever.' In the Assumption of Moses'
   [5453] this ascendency of Israel seems to be conjoined with the idea of
   vengeance upon Rome, [5454] although the language employed is highly
   figurative. [5455] On the other hand, in the Sibylline Books [5456] the
   nations are represented as, in view of the blessings enjoyed by Israel,
   themselves turning to acknowledge God, when perfect mental
   enlightenment and absolute righteousness, as well as physical
   well-being, would prevail under the rule and judgeship (whether literal
   or figurative) of the Prophets. [5457] The most Grecian' view of the
   Kingdom, is, of course, that expressed by Philo. He anticipates, that
   the happy moral condition of man would ultimately affect the wild
   beasts, which, relinquishing their solitary habits, would first become
   gregarious; then, imitating the domestic animals, gradually come to
   respect man as their master, nay, become as affectionate and cheerful
   as Maltese dogs.' Among men, the pious and virtuous would bear rule,
   their dignity inspiring respect, their terror fear, and their
   beneficence good will. [5458] Probably intermediate between this
   extreme Grecian and the Judaic conception of the Millennium, are such
   utterances as ascribe the universal acknowledgment of the Messiah to
   the recognition, that God had invested Him with glory and power, and
   that His Reign was that of blessing. [5459]

   It must have been remarked, that the differences between the
   Apocalyptic teaching of the Pseudepigrapha and that of the New
   Testament are as marked as those between the latter and that of the
   Rabbis. Another point of divergence is, that the Pseudepigrapha
   uniformly represent the Messianic reign as eternal, not broken up by
   any further apostasy or rebellion. [5460] Then would the earth be
   renewed, [5461] [5462] and this would be followed, lastly, by the
   Resurrection. In the Apocalypse of Baruch, [5463] as by the Rabbis, it
   is set forth that men would rise in exactly the same condition which
   they had borne in life, so that, by being recognised, the reality of
   the Resurrection would be attested, while in the re-union of body and
   soul each would receive its due meed for the sins committed in their
   state of combination while upon earth. [5464] But after that a
   transformation would take place: of the just into the Angelic splendour
   of their glory, while, on view of this, the wicked would
   correspondingly fade away. [5465] Josephus states that the Pharisees
   taught only a Resurrection of the Just. [5466] As we know that such was
   not the case, we must regard this as one of the many assertions made by
   that writer for purposes of his own - probably to present to outsiders
   the Pharisaic doctrine in the most attractive and rational light of
   which it was capable. Similarly, the modern contention, that some of
   the Pseudepigraphic Writings propound the same view of only a
   Resurrection of the Just, [5467] is contrary to evidence. [5468] There
   can be no question that, according to the Pseudepigrapha, in the
   general Judgment, which was to follow the universal Resurrection, the
   reward and punishment assigned are represented as of eternal duration,
   although it may be open to question, as in regard to Rabbinic teaching,
   which of those who had been sinners would suffer final and endless
   torment.

   The many and persistent attempts, despite the gross inconsistencies
   involved, to represent the teaching of Christ concerning the Last
   Things' as only the reflection of contemporary Jewish opinion, have
   rendered detailed evidence necessary. When, with the information just
   summarised, we again turn to the questions addressed to Him by the
   disciples, we recall that (as previously shown) they could not have
   conjoined, or rather confounded, the when' of these things' - that is,
   of the destruction of Jerusalem and the Temple - with the when' of His
   Second Coming and the end of the Age.' We also recall the suggestion,
   that Christ referred to His Advent, as to His disappearance, from the
   Jewish standpoint of Jewish, rather than from the general cosmic
   view-point of universal, history.

   As regards the answer of the Lord to the two questions of His
   disciples, it may be said that the first part of His Discourse [5469]
   is intended to supply information on the two facts of the future: the
   destruction of the Temple, and His Second Advent and the end of the
   Age,' by setting before them the signs indicating the approach or
   beginning of these events. But even here the exact period of each is
   not defined, and the teaching given intended for purely practical
   purposes. In the second part of His Discourse [5470] the Lord
   distinctly tells them, what they are not to know, and why; and how all
   that was communicated to them was only to prepare them for that
   constant watchfulness, which has been to the Church at all times the
   proper outcome of Christ's teaching on the subject. This, then we may
   take as a guide in our study: that the words of Christ contain nothing
   beyond what was necessary for the warning and teaching of the disciples
   and of the Church.

   The first Part of Christ's Discourse [5471] consists of four Sections,
   [5472] of which the first describes the beginning of the birth-woes'
   [5473] [5474] of the new Age' about to appear. The expression: The End
   is not yet' [5475] clearly indicates, that it marks only the earliest
   period of the beginning - the farthest terminus a quo of the
   birth-woes.' [5476] Another general consideration, which seems of
   importance, is, that the Synoptic Gospels report this part of the
   Lord's Discourse in almost identical language. If the inference from
   this seems that their accounts were derived from a common source - say,
   the report of St. Peter - yet this close and unvarying repetition also
   conveys an impression, that the Evangelists themselves may not have
   fully understood the meaning of what they recorded. This may account
   for the rapid and unconnected transitions from subject to subject. At
   the same time it imposes on us the duty of studying the language anew,
   and without regard to any scheme of interpretation. This only may be
   said, that the obvious difficulties of negative criticism are here
   equally great, whether we suppose the narratives to have been written
   before or after the destruction of Jerusalem.

   1. The purely practical character of the Discourse appears from its
   opening words. [5477] They contain a warning, addressed to the
   disciples in their individual, not in their corporate, capacity,
   against being led astray.' This, more particularly in regard to Judaic
   seductions leading them after false Christs. Though in the multitude of
   impostors, who, in the troubled times between the rule of Pilate and
   the destruction of Jerusalem, promised Messianic deliverance to Israel,
   few names and claims of this kind have been specially recorded, yet the
   hints in the New Testament, [5478] and the references, however guarded,
   by the Jewish historian, [5479] imply the appearance of many such
   seducers. And their influence, not only upon Jews, but on Jewish
   Christians, might be the more dangerous, that the latter would
   naturally regard the woes,' which were the occasion of their
   pretensions, as the judgements which would usher in the Advent of their
   Lord. Against such seduction they must be peculiarly on their guard. So
   far for the things' connected with the destruction of Jerusalem and the
   overthrow of the Jewish commonwealth. But, taking a wider and cosmic
   view, they might aslso be misled by either rumours of war at a
   distance, or by actual warfare, [5480] so as to believe that the
   dissolution of the Roman Empire, and with it the Advent of Christ, was
   at hand. [5481] [5482] This also would be a Misapprehension, grievously
   misleading, and to be carefully guarded against.

   Although primarily applying to them, yet alike the peculiarly Judaic,
   or, it might be even Christian, and the general cosmic sources of
   misapprehension as to the near Advent of Christ, must not be limited to
   the times of the Apostles. They rather indicate these twofold grounds
   of misapprehension which in all ages have misled Christians into an
   erroneous expectancy of the immediate Advent of Christ: the seductions
   of false Messiahs, or, it may be, teachers, and violent distrubances in
   the political world. So far as Israel was concerned, these attained
   their climax in the great rebellion against Rome under the false
   Messiah, Bar Kokhba, in the time of Hadrian, [5483] although echoes of
   similar false claims, or hope of them, have again and again roused
   Israel during the night of these any centuries into brief, startled
   waking. And, as regards the more general cosmic signs, have not
   Christians, in the early ages watched, not only the wars on the
   boundaries of the Empire, but the condition of the state in the age of
   Nero the risings, turmoils, and threatenings; and so onwards, those of
   later generations, even down to the commotions of our own period, as if
   they betokened the immediate Advent of Christ, instead of marking in
   them only the beginning of the birth-woes of the new Age?'

   2. From the warning to Christians as individuals, the Lord next turns
   to give admonition to the Church in her corporate capacity. Here we
   mark, that the events now described [5484] must not be regarded as
   following, with strict chronological precision, those referred to in
   the previous verses. Rather is it intended to indicate a general nexus
   and partly after, those formerly predicted. They form, in fact, the
   continuation of the birth-woes.' This appears even from the language
   used. Thus, while St. Matthew writes: Then' (tte at that time) shall
   they deliver you up,' St. Luke places the persecutions before all these
   things;' [5485] while St. Mark, who reports this part of the Discourse
   most fully, omits every note of time, and only emphasises the
   admonition which the fact conveys. [5486] As regards the admonition
   itself, expressed in this part of the Lord's Discourse, [5487] we
   notice that, as formerly to individuals, so now to the Church, two
   sources of danger are pointed out: internal from heresies (false
   prophets') and the decay of faith, [5488] and external, from
   persecutions, whether Judaic and from their own kindred, or from the
   secular powers throughout the world. But, along with these two dangers,
   two consoling facts are also pointed out. As regards the persecutions
   in prospect, full Divine aid is promised to Christians - alike to
   individuals and to the Church. Thus all care and fear may be dismissed:
   their testimony shall neither be silenced, nor shall the Church be
   suppressed or extinguished; but inward joyousness, outward
   perseverance, and final triumph, are secured by the Presence of the
   Risen Saviour with, and the felt indwelling of the Holy Ghost in His
   Church. And, as for the other and equally consoling fact: despite the
   persecution of Jews and Gentiles, before the End cometh this the Gospel
   of the Kingdom shall be preached in all the inhabited earth for a
   testimony to all the nations.' [5489] This, then, is really the only
   sign of the End' of the present Age.'

   3. From these general predicitons, the Lord proceeds, in the third part
   of this Discourse, [5490] to advertise the Disciples of the great
   historic fact immediately before them, and of the dangers which might
   spring from it. In truth, we have here His answer to their question,
   When shall these things be?' [5491] not, indeed, as regards the when,
   but the what of them. And with this He conjoins the present application
   of His general warning regarding false Christs, given in the first part
   of this Discourse. [5492] The fact of which He now, in this third part
   of His Discourse, advertises them, is the destruction of Jerusalem. Its
   twofold dangers would be - outwardly, the difficulties and perils which
   at that time would necessarily beset men, and especially the members of
   the infant-Church; and, religiously, the pretensions and claims of
   false Christs or prophets at a period when all Jewish thinking and
   expectancy would lead men to anticipate the near Advent of the Messiah.
   There can be no question, that from both these dangers the warning of
   the Lord delivered the Church. As directed by him, the members of the
   Christian Church fled at an early period of the siege. [5493] of
   Jerusalem to Pella, while the words in which He had told that His
   Coming would not be in secret, but with the brighteness of that
   lightning which shot across the sky, prevented not only their being
   deceived, but perhaps even the record, if not the rise of many who
   otherwise would have deceived them. As for Jerusalem, the prophetic
   vision initially fulfilled in the days of Antiochus [5494] would once
   more, and now fully, become reality, and the abomination of desolation
   [5495] stand in the Holy Place. This, together with tribulation to
   Israel, unparalledled in the terrible past of its history, and
   unequalled even in its bloody future. Nay, so dreadful would be the
   persecution, that, if Divine mercy had not interposed for the sake of
   the followers of Christ, the whole Jewish race that inhabited the land
   would have been swept away. [5496] But on the morrow of that day no new
   Maccabee would arise, no Christ come, as Israel fondly hoped; but over
   that carcase would the vultures gather; [5497] and so through all the
   Age of the Gentiles, till converted Israel should raise the welcoming
   shout: Blessed be He that cometh in the Name of the Lord!'

   4. [5498] The Age of the Gentiles, the end of the Age,' and with it the
   new allegiance of His now penitent people Israel; the sign of the Son
   of Man in heaven,' perceived by them; the conversion of all the world,
   the Coming of Christ, the last Trumpet, the Resurrection of the dead -
   such, in most rapid sketch, is the outline which the Lord draws of His
   Coming and the End of the world.

   It will be remembered that this had been the second question of the
   disciples. [5499] We again recall, that the disciples did not, indeed,
   could not have connected, as immediately subsequent events, the
   destruction of Jerusalem and His Second Coming, since he had expressly
   placed between them the period - apparently protracted - of His
   Absence, [5500] with the many events that were to happen in it -
   notably, the preaching of the Gospel over the whole inhabited earth.
   [5501] Hitherto the Lord had, in His Discourse, dwelt in detail only on
   those events which would be fulfilled before this generation should
   pass. [5502] It had been for admonition and warning that He had spoken,
   not for the gratification of curiosity. It had been prediction of the
   immediate future for practical purposes, with such dim and general
   indication of the more distant future of the Church as was absolutely
   necessary to mark her position in the world as one of persecution, with
   promise, however, of His Presence and Help; with indication also of her
   work in the world, to its terminus ad quem - the preaching of the
   Gospel of the Kingdom to all nations on earth.

   More than this concerning the future of the Church could not have been
   told without defeating the very object of the admonition and warning
   which Christ had exclusively in view, when answering the question of
   the disciples. Accordingly, what follows in ver. 29, describes the
   history, not of the Church - far less any visible physical signs in the
   literal heavens - but, in prophetic imagery, the history of the hostile
   powers of the world, with its lessons. A constant succession of empires
   and dynasties would characterise politically - and it is only the
   political aspect with which we are here concerned - the whole period
   after the extinction of the Jewish State. [5503] Immediately after that
   would follow the appearance to Israel of the Sign' of the Son of Man in
   heaven, and with it the conversion of all nations (as previously
   predicted), [5504] the Coming of Christ, [5505] and, finally, the blast
   of the last Trumpet and the Resurrection. [5506]

   5. From this rapid outline of the future the Lord once more turned to
   make present application to the disciplies; nay, application, also, to
   all times. From the fig-tree, under which, on that spring afternoon,
   they may have rested on the Mount of Olives, they were to learn a
   parable.' [5507] We can picture Christ taking one of its twigs, just as
   its softening tips were bursting into young leaf. Surely, this meant
   that summer was nigh - not that it had actually come. The distinction
   is important. For, it seems to prove that all these things,' which were
   to indicate to them that it [5508] was near, even at the doors, and
   which were to be fulfilled ere this generation had passed away, could
   not have referred, to the last signs connected with the immediate
   Advent of Christ, [5509] but must apply to the previous prediction of
   the destruction of Jerusalem and of the Jewish Commonwealth. At the
   same time we again admit, that the language of the Synoptists seems to
   indicate, that they had not clearly understood the words of the Lord
   which they reported, and that in their own minds they had associated
   the last signs' and the Advent of Christ with the fall of the City.
   Thus may they have come to expect that Blessed Advent even in their own
   days.

   II. It is at least a question, whether the Lord, while distinctly
   indicating these facts, and intended to remove the doubt and
   uncertainty of their sucession from the minds of His disciples. To have
   done so would have necessitated that which, in the opening sentence of
   the Second Division of this Discourse, [5510] He had expressly declared
   to lie beyond their ken. The when' - the day and the hour of His Coming
   - was to remain hidden from men and Angels. [5511] Nay, even the Son
   Himself - as they viewed Him and as He spake to them - knew it not.
   [5512] It formed no part of His present Messianic Mission, nor subject
   for His Messianic Teaching. Had it done so, all the teaching that
   follows concerning the need of constant watchfulness, and the pressing
   duty of working for Christ in faith, hope, and love - with purity,
   self-denial, and endurance - would have been lost. The peculiar
   attitude of the Church: with loins grit for work, since the time was
   short, and the Lord might come at any moment; with her hands busy; her
   mind faithful; her face upturned towards the Sun that was so soon to
   rise; and her ear straining to catch the first notes of heaven's song
   of triumph - all this would have been lost! What has sustained the
   Church during the night of sorrow these many centuries; what has nerved
   her courage for the battle, with steadfastness to bear, with love to
   work, with patience and joy in disappointments - would all have been
   lost! The Church would not have been that of the New Testament, had she
   known the mystery of that day and hour, and not ever waited as for the
   immediate Coming of her Lord and Bridegroom.

   And what the Church of the New Testament has been, and is, that her
   Lord and Master made her, and by no agency more effectually than by
   leaving undetermined the precise time of His return. To the world this
   would indeed become the occasion for utter carelessness and practical
   disbelief of the coming Judgment. [5513] As in the days of Noah the
   long delay of threatened judgment had led to absorption in the ordinary
   engagements of life, to the entire disbelief of what Noah had preached,
   so would it be in the future. But that day would come certainly and
   unexpectedly, to the sudden seperation of those who were engaged in the
   same daily business of life, of whom one might be taken up
   (paralambnetai, received'), the other left to the destruction of the
   coming Judgment. [5514]

   But this very mixture of the Church with the world in the ordinary
   avocations of life indicated a greater danger. As in all such, the
   remedy which the Lord would set before us is not negative in the
   avoidance of certain things, but positive. [5515] We shall best
   succeed, not by going out of the world, but by being watchful in it,
   and keeping fresh on our hearts, as well as our minds, the fact that he
   is our Lord, and that we are, and always most lovingly, to look and
   long for His Return. Otherwise twofold damage might come to us. Not
   expecting the arrival of the Lord in the night-time (which is the most
   unlikely for His Coming), we might go to sleep, and the Enemy, taking
   advantage or it, rob us of our peculiar treasure. [5516] Thus the
   Church, not expecting her lord, might become as poor as the world. This
   would be loss. But there might be even worse. According to the Master's
   appointment, each one had, during Christ's absence, his work for Him,
   and the reward of grace, or else the punishment of neglect, were in
   assured prospect. The faithful steward, to whom the Master had
   entrusted the care of His household, to supply His found faithful, be
   rewarded by advancement to far larger and more responsible work. On the
   other hand, belief on the delay of the Lord's Return would lead to
   neglect to the Master's work, to unfaithfulness, tyranny,
   self-indulgence and sin. [5517] And when the Lord suddenly came, as
   certianly he would come, there would be not only loss, but damage,
   hurt, and the punishment awarded to the hypocrites. Hence, let the
   Church be ever on her watch, [5518] let her ever be in readiness!
   [5519] And how terribly the moral consequences of unreadiness, and the
   punishment threatened, have ensued, the history of the Church during
   these eighteen centuries has only too often and too sadly shown. [5520]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [5350] Baba B 4 a; Sukk 51 b.

   [5351] St. Matt. xxiii. 37-39.

   [5352] St. Matt. xxiv. 1.

   [5353] St. Matt. xxiv. 3.

   [5354] St. Mark xiii. 1.

   [5355] According to Josephus (War vii. 1. 1) the city was so upheaved
   and dug up, that it was difficult to believe it had ever been
   inhabited. At a later period Turnus Rufus had the ploughshare drawn
   over it. And in regard to the Temple walls, notwithstanding the
   massiveness of the stones, with the exception of some corner or portion
   of wall - left almost to show how great had been the ruin and
   desolation - there is, certainly, nothing now in situ.' (Capt. Wilson
   in the Ordnance Survey').

   [5356] St. Mark xiii.3.

   [5357] ts sunteleas to aonos. Godet argues that the account in the
   Gospel of St. Matthew contains, as in other parts of that gospel, the
   combined reports of addresses, delivered at different times. That may
   be so, but inference of Godet is certainly incorrect - that neither the
   question of the disciples, nor the discourse of our Lord on that
   occasion primarily referred to the Second Advent (the parousa). When
   that writer remarks, that only St. Matthew, but neither St. Mark nor
   St. Luke refer to such a question by the disciples, he must have
   overlooked that it is not only implied in the all these things' of St.
   Mark, and the these things' of St. Luke - which, surely, refer to more
   than one thing - but that the question of the disciples about the
   Advent takes up a distinctive part of what Christ had said on quitting
   the Temple, as reported in St. Matt. xxiii. 39.

   [5358] St. Luke xxi. 24 &c.

   [5359] Shabb. 118 a.

   [5360] If these are computed to last nine months, it must have been
   from a kind of fanciful analogy with the sorrows' of a woman.

   [5361] End of the Mishnic Tractte Sotah.

   [5362] Comp. Sanh. 98 a and b.

   [5363] When using the expression Advent' in this connection, we refer
   to the Advent of Mesiah to reign. His Messianic manifestation - not His
   birth.

   [5364] Comp. Jos. War ii. 13, 4; and especially vi. 5. 2.

   [5365] Sukk. 52 a and b.

   [5366] Zech. xii. 12.

   [5367] Another Rabbinic authority, however, refers it to the evil
   impulse,' which was, in the future, to be annihilated.

   [5368] See especially Yalkut on Is. ix. vol. ii. par 359, quoted at
   length in Appendix IX.

   [5369] Comp. J. M. Gloesener, De Gemino Jud. Mess. pp. 145 &c.;
   Schöttgen, Horæ Heb. ii. pp. 360-366.

   [5370] 132-135 A.D.

   [5371] Numb. xxiv. 17.

   [5372] So also both Levy (Neuhebr. Wörterb. vol. iii. p. 271 a) and
   Hamburger (Real. Encykl. f. Bib. u. Talm., Abtheil.ii.p.768). I must
   here express surprise that a writer so learned and independent as
   Castelli (II Messia, pp. 224-236) should have argued that the theory of
   a Messiah, son of Joseph, belonged to the oldest Jewish tradtions, and
   did not arise as explained in the text. The only reason which Castelli
   urges against a view, which he admits to be otherwise porbable, is that
   certain Rabbinic statements speak also of the Son of David as
   suffering. Even if this ere so, such inconsistencies would prove
   nothing, since there are so many instances of them in Rabbinic
   writtings. But, really, the only passage which from its age here
   deserves serious attention in Sanh. 98 a and b. In Yalkut the suffering
   Messiah is expressly designated as the Son of Ephraim.

   [5373] In Bemidb. R. 15 (ed. Warsh. p. 63 a, lines 9 and 8 from
   bottom), the days of the Messiah' are specially distinguished from the
   Athid labho,' soeculum futurum. In Tanchuma (Eqebh, ed. Warsh. ii. p.
   105 a about the middle) it is said, And after the days of the Messiah
   comes the "Olam habba"' - so that the Messianic time is there made to
   include the soeculum futurum. Again, in Pes. 68 a and Sanh. 91 b, the
   days of the Messiah' are distinguished from the Olam habba,' and,
   lastly (not to multiply instances), in Shabb. 113 b from the Athid
   labho.

   [5374] Siphré, ed Friedmann, p. 134 a, about the middle.

   [5375] Tanchuma, as in Note 3.

   [5376] 40 years = "the" wilderness wanderings: 1000 years = one day,
   Ps. xc. 4; 2000 years of salvation = the day of vengeance and the year
   of salvation' (Is. lxiii. 4); 7000 years = the marriage-week (Is. lxii.
   5), a day being = 1000 years.

   [5377] This confirms St. John vii. 26, and affords another evidence
   that it cannot have been of Ephesian authorship, but that its writer
   must have been a Jew, intimately conversant with Jewish belief.

   [5378] But here opinions are divided, some holding that they will never
   be restored. See both opinions in Sanh. 110 b.

   [5379] Yalkut on Is. vol. ii. p. 42 c; Siphra, ed. Weiss. 112 b.

   [5380] Sanh. 113 a.

   [5381] Kethub. 111 a.

   [5382] iv. Esd. vi. 23 &c.

   [5383] On the Resurrection-body, the bone Luz, the dress worn, and the
   reappearance of the former bodily defects, see previous remarks, pp.
   398, 399.

   [5384] In this extremely condensed abstract, I have thought it better
   not to cumber the page with Rabbinic references. They would have been
   too numerous, and the learned reader can easily find sufficient to bear
   on each clause in books treating on the subject..

   [5385] See Book III. ch. iii. and Appendix XIV.

   [5386] Such as even the wearing of the phylacteries (comp. Ber. R. 98;
   Midr. on Ps. xxi.)

   [5387] Midr. on Cant. ii. 13 (ex rec. R. Martini, Pugio Fidei, pp. 782,
   793); Yalkut ii. par. 296.

   [5388] Vayyik. R. 9, 27; Midr on Ps. lvi.; c.

   [5389] Midr. on Ps. cxlvi.; Vavy. R. 13; Tanch., Shemini 7 and 8.

   [5390] Yalkut on Is. xxvi.; Sanh. 97 a; Ab. Z. 9 a.

   [5391] Babha B 75 a.

   [5392] Yalkut ii. p. 57 b, par. 363, line 3.

   [5393] Babh B. 75 b.

   [5394] Gen. xviii. 4, 5.

   [5395] Ber. R. 48.

   [5396] Shabb. 30 b.

   [5397] Kethub. 111 b.

   [5398] Shabb. 30 a, b.

   [5399] Midr. on Ps. xiv.

   [5400] Is. xxv. 8.

   [5401] Is. lxv. 20.

   [5402] Ber. R. 12.

   [5403] Bemidb. R. 13.

   [5404] They are the following six: His splendour, the continuance of
   life, his original more than gigantic stature, the fruits of the
   ground, and of trees, and the brightness of the heavenly lights.

   [5405] Vayyik. R. 13, end.

   [5406] Ber. R. 65.

   [5407] Kethub. 111 a.

   [5408] On that day Gabriel had descended, cut a reed from the ocean,
   and planted it in mud from the sea, and on this the city of Rome was
   founded (Siphré 86 a).

   [5409] Ab. A. 24 a.

   [5410] Ab. Z. 3 b; Yeb. 24 b.

   [5411] Tanch. ed. Warsh ii. p. 115 a, top.

   [5412] Taan. 7a.

   [5413] Kethub. 111 b.

   [5414] Pirké d. R. Eliez. 34.

   [5415] It is, of course, not denied, that individual voices would have
   assigned part in the world to come to the pious from among the
   Gentiles. But even so, what is the precise import of this admission?

   [5416] Erub. 19 a.

   [5417] As to the latter, a solitary opinion in Moed K. 27 a.

   [5418] See Appendix XIX.

   [5419] Pes. 54 a.

   [5420] Rosh haSh. 17 a.

   [5421] Sanh. x. 3; 106 b.

   [5422] Tanch. u. s. i. p. 71 a, b.

   [5423] Ab. Z. 2 a to 3.

   [5424] Ber. R. 91.

   [5425] Yalkut i. p. 45 c.

   [5426] But it does not seem clear to me, whether this conjunction of
   the cessation of darkness, together with that of the Yetser haRa, is
   not intended to be taken figuratively and spiritually.

   [5427] Babha B. 74 a.

   [5428] At the same time, many quotations by Christian writers intended
   to show the materialism of Jewish views are grossly unfair. Thus, for
   example, Ber. 57 b, quoted by Weber (Altsynag. Theol. p. 384),
   certainly does not express the grossly carnal expectancy imputed to it.
   On the other hand, it is certainly grossly materialistic, when we read
   how the skin of slaughtered Leviathan is to be made into tents,
   girdles, necklets, or armlets for the blessed, according to their
   varying merits (Babha B. 75 a). Altogether the account of the nature
   and hunt of this Leviathan, of the feast held, the various dishes
   served (Babha B. 74 b to 75 b), and the wine drunk on the occasion
   (Targ. Pseudo-Jon. on Gen. xxvii. 25; Targ. on Cant. viii. 2; on
   Eccles. ix. 7), are too coarsely materialistic for quotation. But what
   a contrast to the description of the Last Things' by our Lord and His
   Apostles! This alone would furnish sufficient presumptive evidence in
   favour of the New Testament. I have tried to touch this very painful
   matter as delicately as I could, rather by allusions than by
   descriptions, which could only raise prejudices.

   [5429] Yalkut, vol. i. p. 32 d. and especially Ber. 17 a.

   [5430] This is the Jerusalem built of sapphire, which is to descend
   from heaven, and in the central sanctuary of which (unlike the worship
   of the Book of Revelation) Aaron is to officiate and to receive the
   priestly gifts (Taan. 5 a; Baba B. 75 b).

   [5431] See Appendix.

   [5432] Comp. generally Schürer, Neutest. Zeitgesch. pp. 579, &c.

   [5433] 2 Macc. v. 2, 3.

   [5434] Or, Sibyll. iii. 795-806.

   [5435] IV. Esdr. v. 1-12.

   [5436] vi. 18-28.

   [5437] Book of Jubilees xxiii.

   [5438] Orac. Sibyll. iii. 633-652.

   [5439] u. s. 653-697; comp. the figurative acc't in the Book of Enoch
   xc. 16, and following.

   [5440] Assumpt. Mos. x. 2-10.

   [5441] Book of Enoch xc. 37.

   [5442] In the Assumptio Mosis there is no reference at all to the
   Messiah.

   [5443] Or. Sibyll. iii. 652-656; Book of Enoch, u. s.: comp. ch. xlv.
   3-6; xlvi.; lv. 4; lxi. 8, 9, 11, 12; lxii.; lxix. 27-29; Apoc. of Bar.
   xxxix. 7, 8; xl.; lxx. 9; lxxii. 2, end; IV. (II.) Esdras xii. 32-34;
   xiii. 25-30, 34-38.

   [5444] Psalter of Sol. xvii. 25, 33.

   [5445] The words do not convey to me, as apparently to Dr. Schürer,
   that the New Jerusalem actually stood in Eden, and, indeed, existed
   otherwise than ideally.

   [5446] Apoc. of Baruch iv. 3-6.

   [5447] IV. Esdr. x. 44 &c.

   [5448] Tob. xiii. 16-18; xiv. 5; Book of Enoch liii. 6, 7; xc. 28;
   Apoc. of Baruch xxxii. 4.

   [5449] But I do not see, with Schürer, a reference to its coming down
   from heaven, not even in the passage in Baruch to which he refers,
   which is as follows: Et postea oportet renovari in gloria, et
   coronabitur in perpetuum.'

   [5450] Orac. Sibyll. iii. 47-50; and especially Psalter of Solomon
   xvii., particularly vv. 23 &c., 32, 35, 38, 47.

   [5451] I cannot understand how Schürer can throw doubt upon this, in
   view of such plain statements as in Ps. of Sol. xvii., such as (in
   regard to the Messiah): ka ats basiles dkaios didakts p Theo p' atos.

   [5452] Bk. of Jub. xxxii.

   [5453] Or. Sibyll. x. 8.

   [5454] Et ascendes supra cervices et alas aquilæ.'

   [5455] Comp. ver. 9.

   [5456] Ass. Mos. iii. 715-726.

   [5457] u. s. 766-783.

   [5458] De Præm. et Poen. ed. Mang. ii. 422-424; ed. Fref. 923-925.

   [5459] Book of Enoch xlviii. 4, 5; xc. 37; Ps. of Sol. xvii. 34, 35,
   38-40.

   [5460] This is expressed in the clearest language in every one of these
   books. In view of this, to maintain the opposite on the ground of these
   isolated words in Baruch (xl. 3): Et erit principatus ejus stans in
   saeculum, donec finiatur mundus corruptionis,' seems, to say the least,
   a strange contention, especially when we read in lxxiii. 1.: Sederit in
   pace in aeternum super throno regni sui.' We can quite understand that
   Gfrörer should propound this view in order to prove that the teaching
   of the New Testament is only a reflection of that of later Judaism; but
   should an argument so untenable be repeated? IV. Esdras must not here
   be quoted, as admittedly containing New Testament elements.

   [5461] Book of Enoch xlv. 4, 5.

   [5462] Dr. Schürer, following in this also Gfrörer, holds that one
   party placed the renewal of the earth after the close of the Messianic
   reign. He quotes in support only Bar. lxxiv. 2, 3; but the words do not
   convey to me that inference. For the reason stated in the preceding
   Note, IV. Esdras cannot here serve as authority.

   [5463] Ap. Bar. 1, 2, 3.

   [5464] Sanh, 91 a and b.

   [5465] u. s. li. 1-6.

   [5466] Ant. xviii. 1, 3; War ii. 8, 14.

   [5467] In support of it Schürer quotes Ps. of Sol. iii. 16, xiv. 2, &c.
   But these passages convey to me, and will, I think, to others, the very
   opposite. Ps. iii. 16 says nothing of the wicked, only of the
   righteous. But in ver. 13 b we have it: pleia to martolo es tn ana, and
   in ver. 15, ate mers tn martoln es tn ana. Ps. xiv. 2 has again only
   reference to the righteous, but in ver. 6 we have this plain statement,
   which renders any doubt impossible, di toto kleronoma aton des ka sktos
   ka pleia.

   [5468] Comp. Book of Enoch and Apoc. of Bar.

   [5469] St. Matt. xxiv. 4-35, and parallels.

   [5470] St. Matt. xxiv. 36 to end, and parallels.

   [5471] vv. 4-35.

   [5472] vv. 4-8; 9-14; 15-28; 29-35.

   [5473] St. Matt. xxiv. 8; St. Mark xiii. 8.

   [5474] rch dnon, St. Matt. xxiv. 8, and so according to the better
   reading also in St. Mark.

   [5475] St. Matt. xxiv. 6.

   [5476] Generally, indeed, these are regarded as the birth-woes' of the
   end.' But this not only implies a logical impossibility (the birth-woes
   of the end), but it must be remembered that these travail-pains' are
   the judgments on Jerusalem, or else on the world, which are to usher in
   the new - to precede its birth.

   [5477] ver 4.

   [5478] Acts v. 36; viii. 9; xxi. 38.

   [5479] War ii. 13, 4, 5; Ant. xx. 5, 1; 8,10.

   [5480] Of such wars and rumours of wars not only Josephus, but the
   Roman historians,. have much to say about that time. See the
   Commentaries.

   [5481] St. Matt. xxiv. 6-8.

   [5482] We know how persistently Nero has been identified with
   Anti-Christ, and how the Church then expected the immediate return of
   Christ; nay, in all ages, the End' has been associated with troubles in
   the Roman Empire.'

   [5483] A. D. 132-135.

   [5484] St. Matt. xxiv. 9-14, and parallels.

   [5485] St. Luke xxi. 12.

   [5486] St. Mark xii. 9.

   [5487] St. Matt. xxiv. 9-14, and parallels.

   [5488] St. Matt. xxiv. 10-13.

   [5489] St. Matt. xxiv. 14.

   [5490] St. Matt. xxiv. 15-28, and parallels; note especially the
   language of St. Luke.

   [5491] St. Matt. xxiv. 3.

   [5492] vv. 4, 5.

   [5493] So Eusebius (Hist. Eccl. iii. 5) relates that the Christians of
   Judæa fled to Pella, on the northern boundary of Peræa in 68 A.D. Comp.
   also Jos. War iv. 9. 1, v. 10. 1.

   [5494] 2 Macc. vi. 1-9.

   [5495] The quotation from Dan. ix, 27 is neither a literal translation
   of the original, nor a reproduction of the LXX. The former would be:
   And upon the wing [or corner] of the abominations the destroyer.' Our
   Lord takes the well known Biblical expression in the general sense in
   which the Jews took it, that the heathen power (Rome, the abominable)
   would bring desolation - lay the city and Temple waste.

   [5496] St. Matt. xxiv. 22.

   [5497] Ver. 28.

   [5498] vv. 29-31.

   [5499] St. Matt. xxiv. 3.

   [5500] xxiii. 38, 39.

   [5501] xxiv. 14.

   [5502] ver. 34.

   [5503] St. Matt. xxiv. 30.

   [5504] ver. 14.

   [5505] ver. 30.

   [5506] ver. 31.

   [5507] vv. 32, 33.

   [5508] Not as in the R. V. He.' It can scarcely be supposed that Christ
   would. speak of Himself in the third person. The subject is evidently
   the summer' (not as Meyer would render thros='harvest'). In St. Luke
   xxi. 31 it is paraphrased the Kingdom of God.'

   [5509] vv. 29-31.

   [5510] St. Matt xxiv. 36 to end.

   [5511] St. Matt. xxiv.36.

   [5512] The expression does not, of course, refer to Christ in His
   Divinity, but to the Christ, such as they saw Him, in His Messianic
   capacity and office.

   [5513] vv. 37-40.

   [5514] vv. 40,41.

   [5515] vv. 42-51.

   [5516] St Matt xxiv. 43, 44.

   [5517] ver. 45, end.

   [5518] ver. 42.

   [5519] ver. 44.

   [5520] The Parable in St. Luke xii. 35-48 is so closely parallel to
   this, that it seems unnecessary to enter in detail upon its
   consideration.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER VII.
EVENING OF THE THIRD DAY IN PASSION-WEEK-ON THE MOUNT OF OLIVES-LAST PARABLES:
TO THE DISCIPLES CONCERNING THE LAST THINGS-THE PARABLE OF THE TEN VIRGINS-THE
PARABLE OF THE TALENTS-SUPPLEMENTARY PARABLE OF THE MINAS AND THE KING'S
RECKONING WITH HIS SERVANTS AND HIS REBELLIOUS CITIZENS

   (St. Matt. xxv. 1-13; St. Matt. xxv. 14-30; St. Luke xix. 11-28.)

   1. As might have been expected, the Parables concerning the Last Things
   are closely connected with the Discourse of the Last Things, which
   Christ had just spoken to His Disciples. In fact, that of the Ten
   Virgins, which seems the fullest in many-sided meaning, is, in its main
   object, only an illustration of the last part of Christ's Discourse.
   [5521] Its great practical lessons had been: the unexpectedness of the
   Lord's Coming; the consequences to be apprehend from its delay; and the
   need of personal and constant preparedness. Similarly, the Parable of
   the Ten Virgins may, in its great outlines, be thus summarised: Be ye
   personally prepared; be ye prepared for any length of time; be ye
   prepared to go to Him directly.

   Before proceeding, we mark that this Parable also is connected with
   those that had preceeded. But we notice not only connection, but
   progression. Indeed, it would be deeply interesting, alike historically
   and for the better understanding of Christ's teaching, but especially
   as showing its internal unity and development, and the credibility of
   the Gospel-narratives, generally to trace this connection and progress.
   And this, not merely in the three series of parables which mark the
   three stages of His History - the Parables of the Founding of the
   Kingdom, of its Character, and of its Consummation - but as regards the
   parables themselves, that so the first might be joined to the last as a
   string of heavenly pearls. But this lies beyond our task. Not so, to
   mark the connection between the Parable of the Ten Virgins and that of
   the Man without the Wedding-Garment.

   Like the Parable of the Ten Virgins, it had pointed to the future. If
   the exclusion and punishment of the Unprepared Guest did not primarily
   refer to the Last Day, or to the Return of Christ, but perhaps rather
   to what would happen in death, it pointed, at least secondarily, to the
   final consummation. On the other hand, in the Parable of the Ten
   Virgins this final consumation is the primary point. So far, then,
   there is both connection and advance. Again, from the appearance and
   the fate of the Unprepared Guest we learned, that not every one who,
   following the Gospel-call, comes to the Gospel-feast, will be allowed
   to partake of it; but that God will search and try each one
   individually. There is, indeed, a society of guests - the Church; but
   we must not expect either that the Church will, while on earth, be
   wholly pure, or that its purification will be achieved by man. Each
   guest may, indeed, come to the banqueting-hall, but the final judgment
   as to his worthiness belongs to God. Lastly, the Parable also taught
   the no less important opposite lesson, that each individual is
   personally responsible; that we cannot shelter ourselves in the
   community of the Church, but that to partake of the feast requireth
   personal and individual preparation. To express it in modern
   terminology: It taught Churchism as against one-sided individualism,
   and spiritual individualism as against dead Churchism. All these
   important lessons are carried forward in the Parable of the Ten
   Virgins. If the union of the Ten Virgins for the purpose of meeting the
   Bridegroom, and their à priori claims to enter in with Him - which are,
   so to speak, the historical data and necessary premisses in the Parable
   - point to the Church, the main lessons of the Parade are the need of
   individual, personal, and spirtual preparation. Only such will endure
   the trial of the long delay of Christ's Coming; only such will stand
   that of an immediate summons to meet the Christ.

   It is late at even - the world's long day seems past, and the Coming of
   the Bridegroom must be near. The day and the hour we know not, for the
   bridegroom has been far away. Only this we know, that it is the Evening
   of the Marriage which the Bridegroom had fixed, and that his word of
   promise may be relied upon. Therefore all has been made ready within
   the bridal house, and is in waiting there; and therefore the Virgins
   prepare to go forth to meet Him on His Arrival. The Parable proceeds on
   the assumption that the Bridegroom is not in the town, but somewhere
   far away; so that it cannot be known at what precise hour He may
   arrive. But it is known that He will come that night; and the Virgins
   who are to meet Him have gathered - presumably in the house where the
   Marriage is to take place - waiting for the summons to go forth and
   welcome the Bridegroom. The common mistake, that the Virgins are
   represented in verse 1 as having gone forth on the road to meet the
   Bridegroom, is not only irrational - since it is scarcely credible that
   they would all have fallen asleep by the wayside, and with lamps in
   their hands - but incompatible with the circumstance, [5522] that at
   midnight the cry is suddenly raised to go forth and meet Him. In these
   circumstances, no precise parallel can be derived from the ordinary
   Jewish marriage-processions, where the bridgegroom, accompanied by his
   groomsmen and friends, went to the bride's house, and thence conducted
   the bride, with her attendant maidens and friends, into his own or his
   parents' home. But in the Parable, the Bridegroom comes from a distance
   and goes to the bridal house. Accordingly, the bridal procession is to
   meet Him on His Arrival, and escort Him to the bridal place. No mention
   is made of the Bride, either in this Parable of in that or the Marriage
   of the King's Son. This, for reasons connected with their application:
   since in the one case the Wedding Guests, in the other the Virgins,
   occupy the place of the Bride. And here we must remind ourselves of the
   general canon, that, in the interpretation of a Parable, details must
   not be too closely pressed. The Parables illustrate the Sayings of
   Christ, as the Miracles His Doings; and alike the Parables and the
   Miracles present only one or another, not all the aspects of the truth.

   Another archæological inquiry will, perhaps, be more helpful to our
   understanding of this Parable. The lamps' - not torches' - which the
   Ten Virgins carried, were of well-known construction. They bear in
   Talmudic wrtings commonly the name Lappid, but the Aramaised from the
   Greek word in the New Testament also occurs as Lampad and Lampadas.
   [5523] The lamp consisted of a round receptacle for pitch or oil for
   the wick. This was placed in a hollow cup or deep saucer - the Beth
   Shiqqua [5524] - which was fastened by a pointed end into a long wooden
   pole, on which it was borne aloft. According to Jewish authorities,
   [5525] it was the custom in the East to carry in a bridal procession
   about ten such lamps. We have the less reason to doubt that such was
   also the case in Palestine, since, according to rubric, ten was the
   number required to be present at any office or ceremony, such as at the
   benedictions accompanying the marriage-ceremonies. And, in the peculiar
   circurmstances supposed in the Parable, Ten Virgins are represented as
   going forth to meet the Bridegroom, each bearing her lamp.

   The first point which we mark is, that the Ten Virgins brought,
   presumably to the bridal house, their own [5526] lamps.' Emphasis must
   be laid on this. Thus much was there of personal preparation on the
   part of all. But while the five that were wise brought also oil in the
   vessels' [5527] [presumably the hollow receptacles in which the lamp
   proper stood], the five foolish Virgins neglected to do so, no doubt
   expecting that their lamps would be filled out of some common stock in
   the house. In the text the foolish Virgins are mentioned before the
   wise, [5528] because the Parable turns to this. We cannot be at a loss
   to interpret the meaning of it. The Brideggroom far away is Christ, Who
   is come for the Marriage-Feast from the far country' - the Home above -
   certainly on that night, but we know not at what hour of it. The ten
   appointed bridal companions who are to go forth to meet Him are His
   professed disciples, and they gather in the bridal house in readiness
   to welcome His arrival. It is night, and a marriage-procession:
   therefore, they must go forth with their lamps. All of them have
   brought their own lamps, they all have the Christian, or say, the
   Church-profession: the lamp, in the hollow cup on the top of the pole.
   But only the wise Virgins have more than this - the oil in the vessels,
   without which the lamps cannot give their light. The Christian or
   Church-profession is but an empty vessel on the top of a pole, without
   the oil in the vessels. We here remember the words of Christ: Let your
   light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and
   glorify your Father Which is in heaven.' [5529] The foolishness of the
   Virgins, which consisted in this that they had ommited to bring their
   oil, is thus indicated in the text: All they which [atines] [5530] were
   foolish, when they brought their own lamps, brought not with them oil:'
   they brought their own lamps, but not their own oil. This (as already
   explained), probably, not from forgetfulness - for they could scarcely
   have forgotten the need of oil, but from the wilful neglect, in the
   belief that there would be a common stock in the house, out of which
   they would be supplied, or that there would be sufficient time for the
   supply of their need after the announcement that the Bridegroom was
   coming. They had no conception either of any personal obligation in
   this matter, nor that the call would come so suddenly, nor yet that
   there would be so little interval between the arrival of the Bridegroom
   and the closing of the door.' And so they deemed it not necessary to
   undertake what must have involved both trouble and carefulness, the
   bringing their own oil in the hollow vessels in which the lamps were
   fixed.

   We have proceeded on the supposition that the oil was not carried in
   separate vessels, but in those attached to the lamps. It seems scarcely
   likely that these lamps had been lighted while waiting in the bridal
   house, where the Virgins assembled, and which, no doubt, was festively
   illuminated: Many practical objections to this view will readily occur.
   The foolishness of the five Virgins therefore consisted, not (as is
   commonly supposed) in their want of perseverance - as if the oil had
   been consumed before the Bridegroom came, and they had only not
   provided themselves with a sufficient extra-supply - but in the entire
   absence of personal preparation, [5531] having brought no oil of their
   own in their lamps. This corresponds to their conducts, who, belonging
   to the Church - having the profession' - being bridal companions
   provided with lamps, ready to go forth, and expecting to share in the
   wedding feast - neglect the preparation of grace, personal conversation
   and holiness, trusting that in the hour of need the oil may be supplied
   out of the common stock. But they know not, or else heed not, that
   every one must be personally prepared for meeting the Bridegroom, that
   the call will be sudden, that the stock of oil is not common, and that
   the time between His arrival and the shutting of the door will be
   awfully brief.

   For - and here begins the second scene in the Parable - the interval
   between the gathering of the Virgins in readiness to meet Him, and the
   arrival of the Bridegroom is much longer than had been anticipated. And
   so it came, that both the wise and the foolish Virgins slumbered and
   slept.' Manifestly, this is but a secondary trait in the Parable,
   chiefly intended to accentuate the surprise of the sudden announcement
   of the Bridegroom. The foolish Virgins did not ultimately fail because
   of their sleep, nor yet were the wise reproved of it. True, it was
   evidence of their weakness - but then it was night; all the world was
   asleep; and their own drowsiness might be in proportion to their former
   excitement. What follows is intended to bring into prominence the
   startling suddenness of the Bridegroom's Coming. It is midnight - when
   sleep is deepest - when suddenly there was a cry, Behold, the
   Bridegroom cometh! Come ye out to the meeting of Him. Then all those
   Virgins awoke, and prepared (trimmed) their lamps.' This, not in the
   sense of heightening the low flame in their lamps, but in that of
   hastily drawing up the wick and lighting it, when, as there was no oil
   in the vessels, the flame, of course, immediately died out. Then the
   foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil; for our lamps are
   going out. But the wise answered, saying: Not at all [5532] - it will
   never [5533] suffice for us and you! Go ye rather to the sellers, and
   buy for your own selves.'

   This advice must not be regarded as given in irony. This trait is
   introduced to point out the proper source of supply - to emphasise that
   the oil must be their own, and also to prepare for what follows. But
   while they were going to buy, the Bridegroom came; and the ready ones
   [they that were ready] went in with Him to the Marriage-Feast, and the
   door was shut,' The sudden cry at midnight: The Bridegroom cometh!' had
   come with startling surprise both to the wise and the foolish Virgins;
   to the one class it had come only unexpectedly, but to the other also
   unpreparedly. Their hope of sharing or borrowing the oil of the wise
   Virgins being disappointed, the foolish were, of course, unable to meet
   the Bridegroom. And while they hurried to the sellers of oil, those
   that had been ready not only met; but entered with the Bridegroom into
   the bridal house, and the door was shut. It is of no importance here,
   whether or not the foolish Virgins finally succeeded in obtaining oil -
   although this seems unlikely at that time of night - since it could no
   longer be of any possible use, as its object was to serve in the
   festive procession, which was now past. Nevertheless, and when the door
   was shut, those foolish Virgins came, calling on the Bridegroom to open
   to them. But they had failed in that which could alone give them a
   claim to admission. Professing to be bridesmaids, they had not been in
   the bridal procession, and so, in truth and righteousness, He could
   only answer from within: Verily I say unto you, I know you not.' This,
   not only in punishement, but in the right order of things.

   The personal application of this Parable to the disciples, which the
   Lord makes, follows almost of necessity. Watch therefore, for ye know
   not the day, nor the hour.' [5534] Not enough to be in waiting with the
   Church; His Coming will be far on in the night; it will be sudden; it
   will be rapid: be prepared therefore, be ever and personnally prepared!
   Christ will come when least expected - at midnight - and when the
   Church, having become accustomed to His long delay, has gone to sleep.
   So sudden will be His Coming, that after the cry of announcement there
   will not be time for anything but to go forth to meet Him; and so rapid
   will be the end, that, ere the foolish Virgins can return, the door has
   been for ever closed. To present all this in the most striking manner,
   the Parable takes the form of a dialogue, first between the foolish and
   the wise Virgins, in which the latter only state the bare truth when
   saying, that each has only sufficient oil for what is superfluous.
   Lastly, we are to learn from the dialogue between the foolish Virgins
   and the Bridegroom, that it is impossible in the day of Christ's Coming
   to make up for neglect of previous preparation, and that those who have
   failed to meet Him, even though the bridal Virgins, shall be finally
   excluded as being strangers to the Bridegroom.

   2. The Parable of the Talents - their use and misuse [5535] - follows
   closely on the admonition to watch, in view of the sudden and certain
   Return of Christ, and the reward or punishment which will then be meted
   out. Only that, whereas in the Parable of the Ten Virgins the reference
   was to the personal state, in that of the Talents' it is to the
   personal work of the Disciples. In the former instance, they are
   portrayed as the bridal maidens who are to welcome His Return; in the
   latter, as the servants who are to give an account of their
   stewardship.

   From its close connection with what precedes, the Parable opens almost
   abruptly with the words: For [it is] like a Man going abroad, [who]
   called His own servants, and delivered to them His goods.' The emphasis
   rests on this, that they were His own servants, and to act for His
   interest. His property was handed over to them, not for safe custody,
   but that they might do with it as best they could in the interest of
   their Master. This appears from what immediately follows: and so to one
   He gave five talents (about 1,170l.), but to one two (about 468l.), and
   to one one (=6,000 denarii, about 234l.), to each according to his own
   capability' [5536] - that is, He gave to each according to his
   capacity, in proportion as He deemed severally qualified for larger or
   smaller administration. And He journeyed abroad straightway.' [5537]
   Having entrusted the management of His affairs to His servants,
   according to their capacity, He at once went away.

   Thus far we can have no difficulty in understanding the meaning of the
   Parable. Our Lord, Who has left us for the Father's Home, is He Who has
   gone on the journey abroad, and to His own servants has He entrusted,
   not for custody, but to use for Him in the time between His departure
   and His return, what He claims as His own goods.' We must not limit
   this to the administration of His Word, nor to the Holy Ministry,
   although these may have been pre-eminently in view. It referes
   generally to all that a man has, wherewith to serve Christ; for, all
   that the Christian has - his time, money, opportunities, talents, or
   learning (and not only the Word'), is Christ's, and is entrusted to us,
   not for custody, but to trade withal for the absent Master - to further
   the progress of His Kingdom. And to each of us He gives according to
   our capacity for working - mental, moral, and even physical - to one
   five, to another two, and to another one talent.' This capacity for
   work lies not within our own power; but it is in our power to use for
   Christ whatever we may have.

   And here the characteristic difference appears. He that received the
   five talents went and traded with them, and made other five talents. In
   like manner he that had received the two gained [5538] other two.' As
   each had received according to his ability, so each worked according to
   his power, as good and faithful servants of their Lord. If the outward
   result was different, their labour, devotion, and faithfulness were
   equal. It was otherwise with him who had least to do for his Master,
   since only one talent had been entrusted to him. He went away, digged
   up earth, and hid the money of his Lord.' The prominent fact here is,
   that he did not employ it for the Master, as a good servant, but
   shunned alike the labour and the responsibility, and acted as if it had
   been some stranger's, and not his Lord's property. In so doing he was
   not only unfaithful to his trust, but practically disowned that he was
   a servant who had received much, two others are introduced in the
   Parable, who had both received comparatively little - one of whom was
   faithful, while the other in idle selfishness hid the money, not
   heeding that it as his Lord's.' Thus, while the second servant,
   although less had been entrusted to him was as faithful and
   conscientious as he to whom much had been given, and while both had, by
   their gain, increased the possessions of their Master, the third had by
   his conduct rendered the money of his Lord a dead, useless, buried
   thing.

   And now the second scene opens. But after a long time cometh the Lord
   of those servants, and maketh reckoning [5539] with them.' The notice
   of the long absence of the Master not only connects this with the
   Parable of the Ten Virgins, but is intended to show that the delay
   might have rendered the servants who traded more careless, while it
   also increased the guilt of him, who all this time had not done
   anything with his Master's money. And now the first of the servants,
   without speaking of his labour in trading, or his merit in making'
   money, answers with simple joyousness: Lord, five talents deliveredst
   Thou unto me. See, other five talents have I gained besides.' [5540] We
   can almost see his honest face beaming with delight, as he points to
   his Master's increased possession. His approval was all that the
   faithful servant had looked for, for which he had toiled during that
   long absence. And we can understand, how the Master welcomed and owned
   that servant, and assigned to him meet reward. The latter was twofold.
   Having proved his faithfulness and capacity in a comparatively limited
   sphere, one much greater would be assigned to him. For, to do the work,
   and increase the wealth of his Master, had evidently been his joy and
   privilege, as well as his duty. Hence also the second part of his
   reward - that of entering into the joy of his Lord - must not be
   confined to sharing in the festive meal at His return, still less to
   advancement from the position of a servant to that of a friend who
   shares his Master's lordship. It implies far more than this: even
   satisfied heart-sympathy with the aims and gains of his Master, and
   participation in them, with all that thus conveys.

   A similar result followed on the reckoning with the servant to whom two
   talents had been entrusted. We mark that, although he could only speak
   of two talents gained, he met his Master with the same frank joyness as
   he who had made five. For he had been as faithful, and laboured as
   earnestly as he to whom more had been entrusted. And what is more
   important, the former difference between the two servants, dependent on
   greater or less capacity for work, now ceased, and the second servant
   received precisely the same welcome and exactly the same reward, and in
   the same terms, as the first. And yet a deeper, and in some sense
   mysterious, truth comes to us in connection with the words: Thou has
   been faithful over a few things, I will set thee over many things.'
   Surely, then, if not after death, yet in that other dispensation,'
   there must be work to do for Christ, for which the preparation is in
   this life by faithful application for Him of what He has entrusted to
   us - be it much or little. This gives quite a new and blessed meaning
   to the life that now is - as most truly and in all its aspects part of
   that into which it is to unfold. No; not the smallest share of
   talents,' if only faithfully used for Christ, can be lost, not merely
   as regards His acknowledgement, but also their further and wider
   employment. And may we not suggest, that this may, if not explain, yet
   cast the halo of His purpose and Presence around what so often seems
   mysterious in the removal of those who had just attained to opening, or
   to full usefulness, or even of those who are taken from us in the early
   morn of youth and loveliness. The Lord may have need' of them, where or
   how we know not - and beyond this working-day and working-world there
   are many things' over which the faithful servant in little may be set,'
   that he may still do, and with greatly enlarged opportunities and
   powers, the work for Christ which he had loved so well, while at the
   same time he also shares the joy of his Lord.

   It only remains to refer to the third servant, whose sad unfaithfulness
   and failure of service we already, in some measure, understand.
   Summoned to his account, he returned the talent entrusted to him with
   this explanation, that, knowing his Master to be a hard man, reaping
   where he did not sow, and gathering (the corn) where He did not
   winnow,' [5541] he had been afraid of incurring responsibility, [5542]
   and hence hid in the earth the talent which he now restored. It needs
   no comment to show that his own words, however honest and
   self-righteous they might sound, admitted dereliction of his work and
   duty as a servant, and entire misunderstanding as well as
   heart-alienation from his Master. He served Him not, and he knew Him
   not; he loved Him not, and he sympathised not with Him. But, besides,
   his answer was also an insult and a medacious pretext. He had been idle
   and unwilling to work for his Master. If he worked it would be for
   himself. He would not incur the difficulties, the self-denial, perhaps
   the reproach, connected with his Master's work. We recognise here those
   who, although His servants, yet, from self-indulgence and wordliness,
   will not do work for Christ with the one talent entrusted to them -
   that is, even though the responsibility and claim upon them be the
   smallest; and who deem it sufficient to hide it in the ground - not to
   lose it - or to preserve it, as they imagine, from being used for evil,
   without using it to trade for Christ. The falseness of the excuse, that
   he was afraid to do anything with it - an excuse too often repeated in
   our days - lest, peradventure, he might do more harm than good, was now
   fully exposed by the Master. Confessedly, it proceeded from a want of
   knowledge of Him, as if He were a hard, exacting Master, not One Who
   reckons even the least service as done to Himself; from
   misunderstanding also of what work for Christ is, in which nothing can
   ever fail or be lost; and, lastly, from want of joyous sympathy with
   it. And so the Master put aside the flimsy pretext. Addressing him as a
   wicked and slothful servant,' He pointed out that, even on his own
   showing, if he had been afraid to incur responsibility , he might have
   cast' (a word intended to mark the absence of labour) the money to the
   bankers,' when, at His return, He would have received His own, with
   interest.' Thus he might, without incurring responsibility, or much
   labour, have been, at least in a limited sense, faithful to his duty
   and trust as a servant.

   The reference to the practice of lodging money, at interest, with the
   bankers, raises questions too numerous and lengthly for full discussion
   in this place. The Jewish Law distinguished between interest' and
   increase' (neshekh and tarbith), and entered into many and intricate
   details on the subject. [5543] Such transactions were forbidden with
   Israelites, but allowed with Gentiles. As in Rome, the business of
   money-changers' (argentarii, nummularii) and that of bankers'
   (collectarii, mensularii) seem to have run into each other. The Jewish
   bankers' bear precisely the same name (Shulchani, mensularius,
   trapeztes). In Rome very high interest seems to have been charged in
   early times; by-and-by it was lowered, till it was fixed, first at 8½,
   and then at 4 1/6, per cent. But these laws were not of permanent
   duration. Practically, usury was unlimited. It soon became the custom
   to charge monthly interest at the rate of 1 per cent a month. Yet there
   were prosperous times, as at the close of the Republic, when the rate
   of interest was so low as 4 percent; during the early Empire it stood
   at 8 per cent. This, of course, in what we may call fair business
   transactions. Beyond them, in the almost incredible extravagance,
   luxury, and indebtedness of even some of the chief historical
   personages, most usurious transactions took place (especailly in the
   provinces), and that by people in high position (Brutus in Cyprus, and
   Seneca in Britain). Money was lent at 12, 24, and even 48 per cent.;
   the bills bore a larger sum than that actually received; and the
   interest was added to the capital, so that debt and interest alike
   grew. In Greece there were regular State banks, while in Rome such
   provision was only made under exceptional circumstances. Not
   unfrequently the twofold business of money-changing and banking was
   combined. Such bankers' undertook to make payments, to collect moneys
   and accounts, to place out money at interest - in short, all the
   ordinary business of this kind. [5544] There can be no question that
   the Jewish bankers of Palestine and elsewhere were engaged in the same
   undertakings, while the dispersion of their race over the world would
   render it more easy to have trusted correspondents in every city. Thus,
   we find that Herod Agrippa borrowed from the Jewish Alabarch at
   Alexandria the sum of 20,000 drachms, which was paid him in Italy, the
   commission and interest on it amounting to no less than 8 1/2 per cent.
   (2,500 drachms). [5545]

   We can thus understand the allusion to the bankers,' with whom the
   wicked and unfaithful servant might have lodged his lord's money, if
   there had been truth in his excuse. To unmask its hollowness is the
   chief object of this part of the Parable. Accordingly, it must not be
   too closely pressed; but it would be in the spirit of the Parable to
   apply the expression to the indirect employment of money in the service
   of Christ, as by charitable contributions, &c. But the great lesson
   intended is, that every good and faithful servant of Christ must,
   whatever his circumstances, personally and directly use such talent as
   he may have to make gain for Christ. Tried by this test, how few seem
   to have understood their relation to Christ, and how cold has the love
   of the Church grown in the long absence of her lord!

   But as regards the unprofitable' servant in the Parable, the well-known
   punishment of him that had come to the Marriage-Feast without the
   wedding-garment shall await him, while the talent, which he had failed
   to employ for his master, shall be entrusted to him who had shown
   himself most capable of working. We need not seek an elaborate
   interpretation for this. It points to the principle, equally true in
   every administration of God, that unto every one that hath shall be
   given, and he shall be placed in abundance; [5546] but as to him that
   hath not, [5547] also what he hath shall be away from him.' Not a
   cynical rule this, such as the world, in its selfishness or worship of
   success, caricatures it; nor yet the worship of superior force; but
   this, that faithful use for God of every capacity will ever open fresh
   opportunities, in proportion as the old ones have been used, while
   spiritual unprofitableness must end in utter loss even of that which,
   however humble, might have been used, at one time or another, for God
   and for good.

   3. To these Parables, that of the King who on his return makes
   reckoning with His servants and His enemies may be regarded as
   supplemental. It is recorded only by St. Luke, and placed by him in
   somewhat loose connection with the conversion of Zacchæus. [5548] The
   most superficial perusal will show such unmistakable similarity with
   the Parable of The Talents,' that their identity will naturally suggest
   itself to the reader. On the other hand, there are remarkable
   divergences in detail, some of which seem to imply a different
   standpoint from which the same truth is viewed. We have also now the
   additional feature of the message of hatred on the part of the
   citizens, and their fate in consequence of it. It may have been that
   Christ spoke the two Parables on the two different occasions mentioned
   respectively by St. Luke and St. Matthew - the one on the journey to
   Jerusalem, the other on the Mount of Olives. And yet it seems difficult
   to believe that He would, with a few days of telling the Parable
   recorded by St. Luke, have repeated it in almost the same words to the
   disciples, who must have heard it in Jericho. This objection would not
   be so serious, if the Parable addressed, in the first instance, to the
   disciples (that of the Talents) had been afterwards repeated (in the
   record of St. Luke) in a wider circle, and not, as according to the
   Synoptists, the opposite. If, however, we are to regard the two
   Parables of the Talents and of the Pieces of Money as substantially the
   same, we would be disposed to consider the recension by St. Matthew as
   the original, being the more homogeneous and compact, while that of St.
   Luke would seem to combine with this another Parable, that of the
   rebellious citizens. Perhaps it is safest to assume, that, on His way
   to Jerusalem, when his adherents (not merely the disciples) would
   naturally expect that He would inaugurate His Messianic Kingdom, Christ
   may have spoken the latter Parable, to teach them that the relation in
   which Jerusalem stood towards Him, and its fate, were quite different
   form what they imagined, and that His Entrance into the City and the
   Advent of His Kingdom would be separated by a long distance of time.
   Hence the prospect before them was that of working, not of reigning;
   after that would the reckoning come, when the faithful worker would
   become the trusted ruler. These points were, of course, closely
   connected with the lessons of the Parable of the Talents, and, with the
   view of presenting the subject as a whole, St. Luke may have borrowed
   details from that Parable, and supplemented its teaching by presenting
   another aspect of it.

   It must be admitted, that if St. Luke had really these two Parables in
   view (that of the King and of the Talents), and wished to combine them
   into new teaching, he has most admirably welded them together. For, as
   the Nobleman Who is about to entrust money to His servants, is going
   abroad to receive a Kingdom, it was possible to represent Him alike in
   relation to rebellious citizens and to His own servants, and to connect
   their reward with His Kingdom.' And so the two Parables are joined by
   deriving the illustration from political instead of social life. It has
   been commonly supposed, that the Parable contains an allusion to what
   had happened after the death of Herod the Great, when his son Archelaus
   hastened to Rome to obtain confirmation of his father's will, while a
   Jewish deputation followed to oppose his appointment - an act of
   rebellion which Archelaus afterwards avenged in the blood of his
   enemies. The circumstance must have been still fresh in popular
   remembrance, although more than thirty years had elapsed. But if
   otherwise, applications to Rome for installation to the government, and
   popular opposition thereto, were of such frequent occurence amidst the
   quarrels and intrigues of the Herodians, that no difficulty could have
   been felt in understanding the allusions of the Parable.

   A brief analysis will suffice to point out the special lessons of this
   Parable. It introduces a certain Nobleman,' Who has claims to the
   throne, but has not yet received the formal appointment from the
   suzerain power. As He is going away to receive it, He deals as yet only
   with His servants. His object, apparently, is to try their aptitude,
   devotion, and faithfulness: and so He hands - not to each according to
   his capacity, but to all equally, a sum, not large (such as talents),
   but small - to each a mina,' equal to 100 drachms, or about 3l. 5s. of
   our money. To trade with so small a sum would, of course, be much more
   difficult, and success would imply greater ability, even as it would
   require more constant labour. Here we have some traits in which this
   differs from the Parable of the Talents. The same small sum is supposed
   to have been entrusted to all, in order to show which of them was most
   able and most earnest, and hence who should be called to largest
   employment, and with it to greatest honour in the Kingdom. While the
   Nobleman' was at the court of His suzerain, a deputation of His
   fellow-citizens arrived to urge this resolution of theirs: We will not
   that this One reign over us.' It was simply an expression of hatred; it
   stated no reason, and only urged personal opposition, even if such were
   in the face of the personal wish of the sovereign who appointed him
   king.

   In the last scene, the King, now duly appointed, has returned to His
   country. He first reckons with His servants, when it is found that all
   but one have been faithful to their trust, though with varying success
   (the mina of the one having grown into ten; that of another into five,
   and so on). In strict accordance with that success is now their further
   appointment to rule - work here corresponding to rule there, which,
   however, as we know from the Parable of the Talents, is also work for
   Christ: a rule that is work, and work that is rule. At the same time,
   the acknowledgment is the same to all the faithful servants. Similarly,
   the motives, the reasoning, and the fate of the unfaithful servant are
   the same as in the Parable of the Talents. But as regards His enemies,'
   that would not have Him reign over them - manifestly, Jerusalem and the
   people of Israel - who, even after He had gone to receive the Kingdom,
   continued the personal hostility of their We will not that this One
   shall reign over us' - the ashes of the Temple, the ruins of the City,
   the blood of the fathers, and the homeless wanderings of their
   children, with the Cain curse branded on their brow and visible to all
   men, attest, that the King has many ministers to execute that judgment
   which obstinate rebellion must surely bring, if His Authority is to be
   vindicated, and His Rule to secure submission.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [5521] St. Matt. xxiv. 36-51.

   [5522] St Matt. xxv. 6.

   [5523] Jer. Yoma 41 a, line 24 from top.

   [5524] Kel. ii. 8.

   [5525] See the Arukh, ad voc.

   [5526] The better reading in ver. 1. and again in ver. 7, is not atn
   their,' but autn.

   [5527] The word atn in ver. 4, their vessels,' is probably spurious. In
   both cases, as so often, the improving' copyists have missed the deeper
   meaning.

   [5528] In ver.2, according to the better reading, the clauses should be
   inverted, and, as in ver. 3, the foolish' first mentioned.

   [5529] St. Matt. v. 16.

   [5530] quæcunque, eæ omnes quæ.

   [5531] So especially Goebel, to whom, in general, we would acknowledge
   our obligations.

   [5532] Mpote. See Grimm, ad voc. But it is impossible to give the full
   force of the word.

   [5533] The better reading is o m, which double negation I have
   rendered, for want of better, by never.'

   [5534] The clause in which the Son of Man cometh' is spurious - an
   early gloss crept into the text.

   [5535] St. Matt. xxv. 14-30.

   [5536] kat tn dan dnamin.

   [5537] Some critics and the R.V. have drawn the word straightway' to
   the next verse, as referring to the activity of the first servant. The
   reasons urged by Goebel against this seem to me quite convincing,
   besides the fact that there is no cause for thus distinguishing the
   first from the second faithful servant.

   [5538] krdesen - in the case of the first it was poesen, although even
   there krdesen is probably the better reading.

   [5539] sunarei lgon, confert, vel componit, rem seu causam.

   [5540] p' atos should, I think, be retained in the text. It must at any
   rate be supplied.

   [5541] diaskorpzein here in the same sense in which the LXX. render the
   Hebrew {hebrew} in Ezek. v. 2, comp. Trommius Concord., and Grimm ad
   verb.

   [5542] Goebel exaggerates in supposing that the servant had done so,
   because any possible returns for the money would not be his own, but
   the Master's.

   [5543] Babha Mez. iv. and v., especially v. 6, and the Gemara,
   especially Babha M. 70 b &c.

   [5544] Comp. Marquardt, Handb. d. Röm. Alterth. vol. v. 2, pp. 56-68.

   [5545] Jos. Antiq. xviii. 6. 3.

   [5546] perisseuthsetai.

   [5547] So the better reading, to d m chontos.

   [5548] St. Luke xix. 11-28.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER VIII.
THE FOURTH DAY IN PASSION-WEEK - JESUS IN HIS LAST SABBATIC REST BEFORE HIS
AGONY, AND THE SANHEDRISTS IN THEIR UNREST - THE BETRAYAL - JUDAS: HIS
CHARACTER, APOSTASY, AND END.

   (St. Matt. xxvi. 1-5, 14-16; St. Mark xiv. 1, 2, 10, 11; St. Luke xxii.
   1-6.)

   FROM the record of Christ's Sayings and Doings, furnished by St.
   Matthew, we turn once more to that of public events, as, from one or
   another aspect they are related by all the Evangelists. With the
   Discourses in the Temple the public Teaching of Christ had come to an
   end; with that spoken on the Mount of Olives, and its application in
   the Parables of the Virgins' and the Talents,' the instruction of the
   disciples had been concluded. What follows in His intercourse with His
   own is parænetic, [5549] rather than teaching - exhortation, advice,
   and consolation: rather, perhaps, all these combined.

   The three busy days of Passion-Week were past. The day before that on
   which the Paschal Lamb was to be slain, with all that was to follow,
   would be one of rest, a Sabbath to His Soul before its Great Agony. He
   would refresh Himself, gather Himself up for the terrible conflict
   before Him. And He did so as the Lamb of God - meekly submitting
   Himself to the Will and Hand of His Father, and so fulfilling all
   types, from that of Isaac's sacrifice on Mount Moriah to the Paschal
   Lamb in the Temple; and bringing the reality of all prophecy, from that
   of the Woman's Seed that would crush the Serpent's head to that of the
   Kingdom of God in its fullness, when its golden gates would be flung
   open to all men, and Heaven's own light flow out to them as they sought
   its way of peace. Only two days more, as the Jews reckoned them [5550]
   - that Wednesday and Thursday - and at its Even the Paschal supper! And
   Jesus knew it well, and He passed that day of rest and preparation in
   quiet retirement with His disciples - perhaps in some hollow of the
   Mount of Olives, near the home of Bethany - speaking to them of His
   Crucifixion on the near Passover. They sorely needed His words; they,
   rather than He, needed to be prepared for what was coming. But what
   Divine calm, what willing obedience, and also what outgoing of love to
   them, with full consciousness of what was before Him, to think and
   speak of this only on that day! So would not a Messiah of Jewish
   conception have acted; nay, He would not have been placed in such
   circumstances. So would not a Messiah of ambitious aims or of Jewish
   Nationalist aspirations have acted; He would have done what the
   Sanhedrin feared, and raised a tumult of the people,' prepared for it
   as the multitude was, which had so lately raised the Hosanna-cry in
   street and Temple. So would a disillusioned enthusiast not have acted;
   he would have withdrawn from the impending fate. But Jesus knew it all
   - far more the agony of shame and suffering, even the unfathomable
   agony of soul. And the while He thought only of them in it all. Such
   thinking and speaking is not that of Man - it is that of the Incarnate
   Son of God, the Christ of the Gospels.

   He had, indeed, before that, sought gradually to prepare them for what
   was to happen on the morrow's night. He had pointed to it in dim figure
   at the very opening of His Ministry, on the first occasion that he had
   taught in the Temple, [5551] as well as to Nicodemus. [5552] He had
   hinted it, when He spoke of the deep sorrow when the Bridegroom would
   be taken from them, [5553] of the need of taking up His cross, [5554]
   of the fulfilment in Him of the Jonah-type, [5555] of His Flesh which
   He would give for the life of the world, [5556] as well as in what
   might have seemed the Parabolic teaching about the Good Shepherd, Who
   laid down His life for the Sheep, [5557] and the Heir Whom the evil
   husbandmen cast out and killed. [5558] But He had also spoken of it
   quite directly - and this, let us specially notice, always when some
   highpoint in His History had been reached, and the disciples might have
   been carried away into Messianic expectations of an exaltation without
   humiliation, a triumph not a sacrifice. We remember, that the first
   occasion on which He spoke thus clearly was immediately after that
   confession of Peter, which laid the foundation of the Church, against
   which the gates of hell should not prevail; [5559] the next, after
   descending from the Mount of Transfiguration; [5560] the last, on
   preparing to make His triumphal Messianic Entry into Jerusalem. [5561]
   The darker hints and Parabolic sayings might have been misunderstood.
   Even as regarded the clear prediction of His Death, preconceived ideas
   could find no room for such a fact. Deep veneration, which could not
   associate it with His Person, and love which could not bear the thought
   of it, might, after the first shock of the words was past, and their
   immediate fulfilment did not follow, suggest some other possible
   explanation of the prediction. But on that Wednessday it was impossible
   to misunderstand; it could scarcely have been possible to doubt what
   Jesus said of His near Crucifixion. [5562] If illusions had still
   existed, the last two days must have rudely dispelled them. The
   triumphal Hosannas of His Entry into the City, and the acclamations in
   the Temple, had given place to the cavils of Pharisees, Sadducees, and
   Scribes, and with a Woe' upon it Jesus had taken His last departure
   from Israel's sanctuary. And better far than those rulers, whom
   conscience made cowards, did the disciples know how little reliance
   could be placed on the adherence of the multitude.' And now the Master
   was telling it to them in plain words; was camly contemplating it, and
   that not as in the dim future, but in the immediate present - at that
   very Passover, from which scarcely two days separated them. Much as we
   wonder at their brief scattering on His arrest and condemnation, those
   humble disciples must have loved Him much to sit around Him in mournful
   silence as He thus spake, and to follow Him unto His Dying.

   But to one of them, in whose heart the darkness had long been
   gathering, this was the decisive moment. The prediction of Christ,
   which Judas as well as the others must have felt to be true,
   extinguished the last glimmering of such light of Christ as his soul
   had been capable of receiving. In its place flared up the lurid flame
   of hell. By the open door out of which he had thrust the dying Christ
   Satan entered into Judas.' [5563] Yet, even so, not permanently. [5564]
   It may, indeed, be doubted, whether, since God is in Christ, such can
   ever be the case in any human soul, at least on this side eternity.
   Since our world's night has been lit up by the promise from Paradise,
   the rosy hue of its morning has lain on the edge of the horizon,
   deepening into gold, brightening into day, growing into midday-strength
   and evening-glory. Since God's Voice wakened earth by its early
   Christmas-Hymn, it has never been quite night there, nor can it ever be
   quite night in any human soul. [5565]

   But it is a terrible night-study, that of Judas. We seem to tread our
   way over loose stones of hot molten lava, as we climb to the edge of
   the crater, and shudderingly look down its depths. And yet there, near
   there, have stood not only St. Peter in the night of his denial, but
   mostly all of us, save they whose Angels have always looked up into the
   Face of our Father in heaven. And yet, in our weakness, we have even
   wept over them! There, near there, have we stood, not in the hours of
   our weakness, but in those of our sore temptation, when the blast of
   doubt had almost quenched the flickering light, or the storm of passion
   or self-will broken the bruised reed. But He prayed for us - and
   through the night came over desolate moor and stony height the Light of
   His Presence, and above the wild storm rose the Voice of Him, Who has
   come to seek and to save that which was lost. Yet near to us, close to
   us, was the dark abyss; and we can never more forget out last, almost
   sliding, foothold as we quitted its edge.

   A terrible night-study this of Judas, and best to make it here, at
   once, from its beginning to its end. We shall indeed, catch sudden
   glimpse of him again, as the light of the torches flashes on the
   traitor-face in Gethsemane; and once more hear his voice in the
   assemblage of the haughty, sneering councillors of Israel, when his
   footfall on the marble pavement of the Temple-halls; and the clink of
   those thirty accursed pieces of silver shall waken the echoes, wake
   also the dirge of despair in his soul, and he shall flee from the night
   of his soul into the night that for ever closes around him. But all
   this as rapidly as we may pass from it, after this present brief study
   of his character and history.

   We remember, that Judas, the man of Kerioth,' was, so far as we know,
   the only disciple of Jesus from the province of Judæa. This
   circumstance; that he carried the bag, i.e. was treasurer and
   administrator of the small common stock of Christ and His disciples;
   and that he was both a hypocrite and a thief [5566] - this is all that
   we know for certain of his history. From the circumstance that he was
   appointed to such office of trust in the Apostolic community, we infer
   that he must have been looked up to by the others as an able and
   prudent man, a good administrator. And there is probably no reason to
   doubt, that he possessed the natural gift of administration or of
   government' (kubrnesis). [5567] The question, why Jesus left him the
   bag' after he knew him to be a thief - which, as we believe, he was not
   at the beginning, and only became in the course of time and in the
   progress of disappointment - is best answered by this other: Why He
   originally allowed it to be entrusted to Judas? It was not only because
   he was best fitted - probably, absolutely fitted - for such work, but
   also in mercy to him, in view of his character. To engage in that for
   which a man is naturally fitted is the most likely means of keeping him
   from brooding, dissatisfaction, alienation, and eventual apostasy. On
   the other hand, it must be admitted that, as mostly all our
   life-temptations come to us from that for which we have most aptitude,
   when Judas was alienated and unfaithful in heart, this very thing
   became also his greatest temptation, and, indeed, hurried him to his
   ruin. But only after he had first failed inwardly. And so, as ever in
   like circumstances, the very things which might have been most of
   blessing become most of curse, and the judgment of hardening fulfills
   itself by that which in itself is good. Nor could the bag' have been
   afterwards taken from him without both exposing him to the others, and
   precipitating his moral destruction. And so he had to be left to the
   process of inward ripening, till all was ready for the sickle.

   This very gift of government' in Judas may also help us to understand
   how he may have been first attracted to Jesus, and through what
   process, when alienated, he came to end in that terrible sin which had
   cast its snare about him. The gift of government' would, in its active
   aspect, imply the desire for it. From thence to ambition in its worst,
   or selfish, aspect, there is only a step - scarcely that: rather, only
   different moral premisses. [5568] Judas was drawn to Jesus as the
   Jewish Messiah, and he believed in Him as such, possibly both earnestly
   and ardently; but he expected that His would be the success, the
   result, and the triumphs of the Jewish Messiah, and he also expected
   personally and fully to share in them. How deep-rooted were such
   feelings even in the best, purest, and most unselfish of Jesus'
   disciples, we gather from the request of the mother of John and James
   for her sons, and from Peter's question: What shall we have?' it must
   have been sorrow, the misery of moral loneliness, and humiliation, to
   Him Who was Unselfishness Incarnate, Who lived to die and was full to
   empty Himself, to be associated with such as even His most intimate
   disciples, who in this sense also could not watch with Him even one
   hour, and in whom, at the end of His Ministry, such heaviness was
   mentally and morally the outcrop, if not the outcome. And in Judas all
   this must have been an hundredfold more than in them who were in heart
   true to Christ.

   He had, from such conviction as we have described, joined the movement
   at its very commencement. Then, multitudes in Galilee followed His
   Footsteps, and watched for His every appearance; they hung entranced on
   His lips in the Synagogue or on the Mount;' they flocked to Him from
   every town, village, and hamlet; they bore the sick and dying to His
   Feet, and witnessed, awestruck, how conquered devils gave their
   testimony to His Divine Power. It was the spring-time of the movement,
   and all was full of promise - land, people, and disciples. The Baptist,
   who had bowed before Him and testified to Him, was still lifting his
   voice to proclaim the near Kingdom. But the people had turned after
   Jesus, and He swayed them. And, oh! what power was there in His Face
   and Word, and His look and deed. And Judas, also, had been one of them
   who, on their early Mission, had temporarily had power given Him, so
   that the very devils had been subject to them. But, step by step, had
   come the disappointment. John was beheaded, and not avenged; on the
   contrary, Jesus withdrew Himself. This constant withdrawing, whether
   from enemies or from success - almost amounting to flight - even when
   they would have made Him a King; this refusal to show Himself openly,
   either at Jerusalem, as His own brethen had taunted Him, or, indeed,
   anywhere else; this uniform preaching of discouragement to them, when
   they came to Him elated and hopeful at some success; this gathering
   enmity of Israel's leaders, and His marked avoidance of, or, as some
   might have put it, His failure in taking up the repeated public
   challenge of the Pharisees to show a sign from heaven; last, and chief
   of all, this constant and growing reference to shame, disaster, and
   death - what did it all mean, if not disappointment of all those hopes
   and expectations which had made Judas at the first a disciple of Jesus?

   He that so knew Jesus, not only in His Words and Deeds, but in His
   inmost Thoughts, even to His night-long communing with God on the
   hill-side, could not have seriously believed in the coarse Pharisaic
   charge of Satanic agency as the explanation of all. Yet, from the then
   Jewish standpoint, he could scarcely have found it impossible to
   suggest some other explanation of His miraculous power. But, as
   increasingly the moral and spiritual aspect of Christ's Kingdom must
   have become apparent to even the dullest intellect, the bitter
   disappointment of his Messianic thoughts and hopes must have gone on,
   increasing in proportion as, side by side with it, the process of moral
   alienation, unavoidably connected with his resistance to such spiritual
   manifestation, continued and increased. And so the mental and the moral
   alienation went on together, affected by and affecting each other. As
   if we were pressed to name a definite moment when the process of
   disintegration, at least sensibly, began, we would point to that
   Sabbath-morning at Capernaum, when Christ had preached about His Flesh
   as the Food of the World, and so many of His adherents ceased to follow
   after Him; nay, when the leaven so worked even in His disciplies, that
   He turned to them with the searching question - intended to show them
   the full import of the crisis - whether they also would leave Him?
   Peter conquered by grasping the moral element, because it was germane
   to him and to the other true disciples: To whom shall we go? Thou hast
   the words of eternal life.' But this moral element was the very cliff
   on which Judas made shipwreck. After this, all was wrong, and
   increasingly so. We see disappointment in his face when not climbing
   the Mount of Transfiguration, and disappointment in the failure to heal
   the lunatick child. In the disputes by the way, in the quarrels who was
   greatest among them, in all the pettiness of misunderstandings and
   realistic folly of their questions or answers, we seem to hear the echo
   of his voice, to see the result of his influence, the leaven of his
   presence. And in it all we mark the downward hastening of his course,
   even to the moment when, in contrast to the deep love of a Mary, he
   first stands before us unmasked, as heartless, hyprocritical, full of
   hatred - disappointed ambition having broken down into selfishness, and
   selfishness slid into covetousness, even to the crime of stealing that
   which was destined for the poor.

   For, when an ambition which rests only on selfishness gives way there
   lies close by it the coarse lust of covetousness, as the kindred
   passion and lower expression of that other form of selfishness. When
   the Messianic faith of Judas gave place to utter disappointment, the
   moral and spiritual character of Christ's Teaching would affect him,
   not sympathetically but antipathetically. Thus, that which should have
   opened the door of his heart, only closed and double-barred it. His
   attachment to the Person of Jesus would give place to actual hatred,
   though only of a temporary character; and the wild intenseness of his
   Eastern nature would set it all in flame. Thus, when Judas had lost his
   slender foothold, or, rather, when it had slipped from under him, he
   fell down, down the eternal abyss. The only hold to which he could
   cling was the passion of his soul. As he laid hands on it, it gave way,
   and fell with him into fathomless depths. We, each of us, have also
   some master-passion; and if, which God forbid! we should lose our
   foothold, we also would grasp this master-passion, and it would give
   way, and carry us with it into the eternal dark and deep.

   On that spring day, in the restfulness of Bethany, when the Master was
   taking His sad and solemn Farewell of sky and earth, of friends and
   disciples, and told them what was to happen only two days later at the
   Passover, it was all settled in the soul of Judas. Satan entered' it.
   Christ would be crucified; this was quite certain. In the general
   cataclysm let Judas have at least something. And so, on that sunny
   afternoon, he left them out there, to seek speech of them that were
   gathered, not in their ordinary meeting-place, but in the High-Priest's
   Palace. Even this indicates that it was an informal meeting,
   consultative rather than judicial. For, it was one of the principles of
   Jewish Law that, in criminal cases, sentence must be spoken in the
   regular meeting-place of the Sanhedrin. [5569] The same inference is
   conveyed by the circumstance, that the captain of the Temple-guard and
   his immediate subordinates seem to have been taken into the council,
   [5570] no doubt to concert the measures for the actual arrest of Jesus.
   There had previously been a similar gathering and consultation, when
   the report of the raising of Lazarus reached the authorities of
   Jerusalem. [5571] The practical resolution adopted at that meeting had
   apparently been, that a strict watch should henceforth be kept on
   Christ's movements, and that every one of them, as well as the names of
   His friends, and the places of His secret retirement, should be
   communicated to the authorities, with the view to His arrest at the
   proper moment. [5572]

   It was probably in professed obedience to this direction, that the
   traitor presented himself that afternoon in the Palace of the
   High-Priest Caiaphas. [5573] Those assembled there were the chiefs' of
   the Priesthood - no doubt, the Temple-officials, heads of the course of
   Priests, and connections of the High-Priestly family, who constituted
   what both Josephus and the Talmud designate as the Priestly Council.
   [5574] All connected with the Temple, its ritual, administration,
   order, and laws, would be in their hands. Moreover, it was but natural,
   that the High-Priest and his council should be the regular official
   medium between the Roman authorities and the people. In matters which
   concerned, not ordinary misdemeanours, but political crimes (such as it
   was wished to represent the movement of Jesus), or which affected the
   status of the established religion, the official chiefs of the
   Priest-hood would, of course, be the persons to appeal, in conjunction
   with the Sanhedrists, to the secular authorities. This, irrespective of
   the question - to which reference will be made in the sequel - what
   place the Chief Priests held in the Sanhedrin. But in that meeting in
   the Palace of Caiaphas, besides these Priestly Chiefs, the leading
   Sanhedrists (Scribes and Elders') were also gathered. They were
   deliberating how Jesus might be taken by subtilty and killed. Probably
   they had not yet fixed on any definite plan. Only at this conclusion
   had they arrived - probably in consequence of the popular acclamations
   at His Entry into Jerusalem, and of what had since happened - that
   nothing must be done during the Feast, for fear of some popular tumult.
   They knew only too well the character of Pilate, and how in any such
   tumult all parties - the leaders as well as the led - might experience
   terrible vengeance.

   It must have been intense relief when, in their perplexity, the traitor
   now presented himself before them with his proposals. Yet his reception
   was not such as he may have looked for. He probably expected to be
   hailed and treated as a most important ally. They were, indeed, glad,
   and covenanted to give him money,' even as he promised to dog His
   steps, and watch for the opportunity which they sought. In truth, the
   offer of the betrayer changed the whole aspect of matters. What
   formerly they dreaded to attempt seemed now both safe and easy. They
   could not allow such an opportunity to slip; it was one that might
   never occur again. Nay, might it not even seem, from the defection of
   Judas, as if dissatisfaction and disbelief had begun to spread in the
   innermost circle of Christ's disciples?

   Yet, withal, they treated Judas not as an honoured associate, but as a
   common informer, and a contemptible betrayer. This was not only natural
   but, in the circumstances, the wisest policy, alike in order to save
   their own dignity, and to keep most secure hold on the betrayer. And,
   after all, it might be said, so as to minimise his services, that Judas
   could really not do much for them - only show them how they might seize
   Him at unawares in the absence of the multitude, to avoid the possible
   tumult of an open arrest. So little did they understand Christ! And
   Judas had at last to speak it out barefacedly - so selling himself as
   well as the Master: What will ye give me?' It was in literal fulfilment
   of prophecy, [5575] that they weighed out' to him [5576] from the very
   Temple-treasury those thirty pieces of silver (about 3l. 15s.). [5577]
   And here we mark, that there is always terrible literality about the
   prophecies of judgment, while those of blessing far exceed the words of
   prediction. And yet it was surely as much in contempt of the seller as
   of Him Whom he sold, that they paid the legal price of a slave. Or did
   they mean some kind of legal fiction, such as to buy the Person of
   Jesus at the legal price of a slave, so as to hand it afterwards over
   to the secular authorities? Such fictions, to save the conscience by a
   logical quibble, are not so uncommon - and the case of the Inquisitors
   handing over the condemned heretic to the secular authorities will
   recur to the mind. But, in truth, Judas could not now have escaped
   their toils. They might have offered him ten or five pieces of silver,
   and he must still have stuck to his bargain. Yet none the less do we
   mark the deep symbolic significance of it all, in that the Lord was, so
   to speak, paid for out of the Temple-money which was destined for the
   purchase of sacrifices, and that He, Who took on Him the form of a
   servant, [5578] was sold and bought at the legal price of a slave.
   [5579]

   And yet Satan must once more enter the heart of Judas at that Supper,
   before he can finally do the deed. [5580] But, even so, we believe it
   was only temporarily, not for always - for, he was still a human being,
   such as on this side eternity we all are - and he had still a
   conscience working in him. With this element he had not reckoned in his
   bargain in the High Priest's Palace. On the morrow of His condemnation
   would it exact a terrible account. That night in Gethsemane never more
   passed from his soul. In the thickening and encircling gloom all
   around, he must have ever seen only the torch-light glare as it fell on
   the pallid Face of the Divine Sufferer. In the terrible stillness
   before the storm, he must have ever heard only these words: Betrayest
   thou the Son of Man with a kiss?' He did not hate Jesus then - he hated
   nothing; he hated everything. He was utterly desolate, as the storm of
   despair swept over his disenchanted soul, and swept him before it. No
   one in heaven or on earth to appeal to; no one, Angel or man, to stand
   by him. Not the priests, who had paid him the price of blood, would
   have aught of him, not even the thirty pieces of silver, the
   blood-money of his Master and of his own soul - even as the modern
   Synagougue, which approves of what has been done, but not of the deed,
   will have none of him! With their See thou to it!' they sent him
   reeling back into his darkness. Not so could conscience be stilled.
   And, louder than the ring of the thirty silver pieces as they fell on
   the marble pavement of the Temple, rang it ever in his soul, I have
   betrayed innocent blood!' Even if Judas possessed that which on earth
   cleaves closest and longest to us - a woman's love - it could not have
   abode by him. It would have turned into madness and fled; or it would
   have withered, struck by the lightning-flash of that night of terrors.

   Deeper - farther out into the night! to its farthest bounds - where
   rises and falls the dark flood of death. The wild howl of the storm has
   lashed the dark waters into fury: they toss and break in wild billows
   at his feet. One narrow rift in the cloud-curtain over-head, and, in
   the pale, deathlike light lies the Figure of the Christ, so calm and
   placid, untouched and unharmed, on the storm-tossed waters, as it had
   been that night lying on the Lake of Galilee, when Judas had seen Him
   come to them over the surging billows, and then bid them be peace.
   Peace! What peace to him now - in earth or heaven? It was the same
   Christ, but thorn-crowned, with nail-prints in His Hands and Feet. And
   this Judas had done to the Master! Only for one moment did it seem to
   lie there; then it was sucked up by the dark waters beneath. And again
   the cloud-curtain is drawn, only more closely; the darkness is thicker,
   and the storm wilder than before. Out into that darkness, with one wild
   plunge - there, where the Figure of the Dead Christ had lain on the
   waters! And the dark waters have closed around him in eternal silence.

   In the lurid morn that broke on the other shore where the flood cast
   him up, did he meet those searching, loving Eyes of Jesus, Whose gaze
   he knew so well - when he came to answer for the deeds done in the
   flesh?

   And - can there be a store in the Eternal Compassion for the Betrayer
   of Christ?
     __________________________________________________________________

   [5549] I take leave to introduce a term which has become naturalised in
   German theological literature. There is no other single word which so
   expresses the ideas.

   [5550] An attempt has been lately made, with great ingenuity, by the
   Rev. B. S. Clarke of Boxted, to show that only the weekly Sabbath and
   the Day of Atonement, but not the other festive, nor yet the natural
   days, began with the evening. The admission in regard to Sabbaths and
   the Day of Atonement is, in the absence of any qualifying remark in
   regard to them, a primâ facie argument against the theory. But there is
   more than this. In Chull. 83 a it is noted, in connection with
   offerings, that as in the history of the Creation the day always
   belonged to the previous night (one day'), it was always to be reckoned
   in the same manner. Again, in Pes. 2 a it is stated that the day lasted
   till three stars became visible. Lastly, and most important in regard
   to the Passover, it is distinctly stated (Jer. Pes. 27 c, below), that
   it began with the darkness on the 14th Nisan.

   [5551] St. John ii. 19.

   [5552] iii. 14.

   [5553] St. Matt. ix. 15.

   [5554] x. 38.

   [5555] St. Matt. xii. 40.

   [5556] St. John vi. 51.

   [5557] St. John x. 11, 15.

   [5558] St. Matt. xxi. 38.

   [5559] St. Matt. xvi. 21.

   [5560] St. Matt. xvii. 22.

   [5561] St. Matt. xx. 17-19.

   [5562] On the evidential force of the narrative of the Crucifixion, I
   must refer to the singularly lucid and powerful reasoning of Dr. Wace,
   in his work on The Gospel and its Witnesses' (London, 1883, Lecture
   VI.). He first refers to the circumstance, that in the narratives of
   the Crucifixion, written by Apostle, or by friends of Apostles, the
   writers do not shrink from describing their own conduct, or that of
   their Master,' with a truthfulness which terribly reflects on their
   constancy, courage, and even manliness. Dr. Wace's second argument is
   so clearly put, that I must take leave to transfer his language to
   these pages. Christ crucified was, we are told by St. Paul, "unto the
   Jews a stumbling block, and unto the Greeks foolishness." It was a
   constant reproach to Christians, that they worshipped a man who had
   been crucified as a malefactor. The main fact, of course, could not be
   disguised. But that the Evangelical writers should have so diligently
   preserved what might otherwise have been forgotten - all the minute
   circumstances of their Master's humiliation, the very weakness of His
   flesh, and His shrinking, in the garden, from the cup He had to drink -
   all those marks, in fact, of His human weakness which were obliterated
   by His Resurrection - this is an instance of truthfulness which seems
   at least incompatible with any legendary origin of the narratives, at a
   time when our Lord was contemplated in the glory of His Ascension, and
   of His session at the right hand of God. But whatsoever impression of
   truthfulness, and of intense reality in detail, is thus created by the
   history of the Passion, must in justice be allowed to reflect back over
   the whole preceding history.' The argument is then further carried out
   as to the truthfulness of writers who could so speak of themselves, and
   concerning the fate of the Christ. But the whole subject should be
   studied in the connection in which Dr. Wace has presented it.

   [5563] St. Luke xxii. 3.

   [5564] St. John xiii. 2 and 27.

   [5565] This apart from the question of the exceptional sin against the
   Holy Ghost.

   [5566] St. John xii. 5, 6.

   [5567] 1 Cor. xii. 28.

   [5568] On the relation between ambition and covetousness, generally,
   and in the case of Judas, see p. 77.

   [5569] Ab. Zar. 8 b, line before last.

   [5570] St. Luke xxii. 4.

   [5571] St. John xi. 47, 48.

   [5572] St. John xi. 57.

   [5573] About Caiaphas, see Book II. ch. xi.

   [5574] The evidence is collected, although not well arranged, by
   Wieseler, Beitr. pp. 205-230.

   [5575] Zech. xi. 12.

   [5576] Probably such was the practice in public payments.

   [5577] The shekel of the Sanctuary = 4 dinars. The Jerusalem shekel is
   found, on an average, to be worth about 2s. 6d.

   [5578] Phil. ii. 7.

   [5579] Exod. xxi 32.

   [5580] St. John xiii. 27.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER IX.
THE FIFTH DAY IN PASSION-WEEK - MAKE READY THE PASSOVER!'

   St. Matt. xxvi. 17-19; St. Mark xiv. 12-16; St. Luke xxii. 7-13; St.
   John xiii. 1.)

   When the traitor returned from Jerusalem on the Wednesday afternoon,
   the Passover, in the popular and canonical, though not in the Biblical
   sense, was close at hand. It began on the 14th Nisan, that is, from the
   appearance of the first three stars on Wednesday evening [the evening
   of what had been the 13th], and ended with the first three stars on
   Thursday evening [the evening of what had been the 14th day of Nisan].
   As this is an exceedingly important point, it is well here to quote the
   precise language of the Jerusalem Talmud: [5581] What means: On the
   Pesach? [5582] On the 14th [Nisan].' And so Josephus describes the
   Feast as one of eight days, [5583] evidently reckoning its beginning on
   the 14th, and its close at the end of the 21st Nisan. The absence of
   the traitor so close upon the Feast would therefore, be the less
   noticed by the others. Necessary preparations might have to be made,
   even though they were to be guests in some house - they knew not which.
   These would, of course, devolve on Judas. Besides, from previous
   conversations, they may also have judged that the man of Kerioth' would
   fain escape what the Lord had all that day been telling them about, and
   which was now filling their minds and hearts.

   Everyone in Israel was thinking about the Feast. For the previous month
   it had been the subject of discussion in the Academies, and, for the
   last two Sabbaths at least, that of discourse in the Synagogues. [5584]
   Everyone was going to Jerusalem, or had those near and dear to them
   there, or at least watched the festive processions to the Metropolis of
   Judaism. It was a gathering of universal Israel, that of the memorial
   of the birth-night of the nation, and of its Exodus, when friends from
   afar would meet, and new friends be made; when offerings long due would
   be brought, and purification long needed be obtained - and all worship
   in that grand and glorious Temple, with its gorgeous ritual. National
   and religious feelings were alike stirred in what reached far back to
   the first, and pointed far forward to the final Deliverance. On that
   day a Jew might well glory in being a Jew. But we must not dwell on
   such thoughts, nor attempt a general description of the Feast. Rather
   shall we try to follow closely the footsteps of Christ and His
   disciples, and see or know only what on that day they saw and did.

   For ecclesiastical purposes Bethphage and Bethany seem to have been
   included in Jerusalem. But Jesus must keep the Feast in the City
   itself, although, if His purpose had not been interrupted, He would
   have spent the night outside its walls. [5585] The first preparations
   for the Feast would commence shortly after the return of the traitor.
   For, on the evening [of the 13th] commenced the 14th of Nisan, when a
   solemn search was made with lighted candle throughout each house for
   any leaven that might be hidden, or have fallen aside by accident. Such
   was put by in a safe place, and afterwards destroyed with the rest. In
   Galilee it was the usage to abstain wholly from work; in Judea the day
   was divided, and actual work ceased only at noon, though nothing new
   was taken in hand even in the morning. This division of the day for
   festive purposes was a Rabbinic addition; and, by way of a hedge around
   it, an hour before midday was fixed after which nothing leavened might
   be eaten. The more strict abstained from it even an hour earlier (at
   ten o'clock), lest the eleventh hour might insensibly run into the
   forbidden midday. But there could be little real danger of this, since,
   by way of public notification, two desecrated thankoffering cakes were
   laid on a bench in the Temple, the removal of one of which indicated
   that the time for eating what was leavened had passed; the removal of
   the other, that the time for destroying all leaven had come. [5586]

   It was probably after the early meal, and when the eating of leaven had
   ceased, that Jesus began preparations for the Paschal Supper. St. John,
   who, in view of the details in the other Gospels, summarises, and, in
   some sense, almost passes over, the outward events, so that their
   narration may not divert attention from those all-important teachings
   which he alone records, simply tells by way of preface and explanation
   - alike of the Last Supper' and of what followed - that Jesus, knowing
   that His hour was come that He should depart out of this world unto the
   Father [5587] . . . having loved His own which were in the world, He
   loved them unto the end.' [5588] But St. Luke's account of what
   actually happened, being in some points the most explicit, requires to
   be carefully studied, and that without thought of any possible
   consequences in regard to the harmony of the Gospels. It is almost
   impossible to imagine anything more evident, than that he wishes us to
   understand that Jesus was about to celebrate the ordinary Jewish
   Paschal Supper. And the Day of Unleavened Bread came, on which the
   Passover must be sacrificed.' [5589] The designation is exactly that of
   the commencement of the Pascha, which, as we have seen, was the 14th
   Nisan, and the description that of the slaying of the Paschal Lamb.
   What follows is in exact accordance with it: And He sent Peter and
   John, saying, Go and make ready for us the Pascha, that we may eat it.'
   Then occur these three notices in the same account: And . . . they made
   ready the Pascha;' [5590] and when the hour was come, He reclined [as
   usual at the Paschal Supper], and the Apostles with Him;' [5591] and,
   finally, these words of His: [5592] With desire I have desired to eat
   this Pascha with you.' And with this fully agrees the language of the
   other two Synoptists, St. Matt. xxvi. 17-20, and St. Mark xiv. 12-17.
   [5593] No ingenuity can explain away these facts. The suggestion, that
   in that year the Sanhedrin had postponed the Paschal Supper form
   Thursday evening (the 14th-15th Nisan) to Friday evening (15-16th
   Nisan), so as to avoid the Sabbath following on the first day of the
   feast - and that the Paschal Lamb was therefore in that year eaten on
   Friday, the evening of the day on which Jesus was crucified, is an
   assumption void of all support in history or Jewish tradition. [5594]
   Equally untenable is it, that Christ had held the Paschal Supper a day
   in advance of that observed by the rest of the Jewish world - a
   supposition not only inconsistent with the plain language of the
   Synoptists, but impossible, since the Paschal Lamb could not have been
   offered in the Temple, and, therefore, no Paschal Supper held, out of
   the regular time. But, perhaps, the strangest attempt to reconcile the
   statement of the Synoptists with what is supposed inconsistent with it
   in the narration of St. John [5595] is, that while the rest of
   Jerusalem, including Christ and His Apostles, partook of the Paschal
   Supper, the chief priests had been interrupted in, or rather prevented
   from it by their proceedings against Jesus - that, in fact, they had
   not touched it when they feared to enter Pilate's Judgment-Hall; [5596]
   and that, after that, they went back to eat it, turning the Supper into
   a breakfast.' [5597] Among the various objections to this extraordinary
   hypothesis, this one will be sufficient, that such would have been
   absolutely contrary to one of the plainest rubrical directions, which
   has it: The Pascha is not eaten but during the night, nor yet later
   than the middle of the night.' [5598]

   It was, therefore, with the view of preparing the ordinary Paschal
   Supper that the Lord now sent Peter and John. [5599] For the first time
   we see them here joined together by the Lord, these two, who henceforth
   were to be so closely connected: he of deepest feeling with him of
   quickest action. And their question, where He would have the Paschal
   Meal prepared, gives us a momentary glimpse of the mutual relation
   between the Master and His Disciples; how He was still the Master, even
   in their most intimate converse, and would only tell them what to do
   just when it needed to be done; and how they presumed not to ask
   beforehand (far less to propose, or to interfere), but had simple
   confidence and absolute submission as regarded all things. The
   direction which the Lord gave, while once more evidencing to them, as
   it does to us, the Divine foreknowledge of Christ, had also its deep
   human meaning. Evidently, neither the house where the Passover was to
   be kept, nor its owner, [5600] was to be named beforehand within
   hearing of Judas. That last Meal with its Institution of the Holy
   Supper, was not to be interrupted, nor their last retreat betrayed,
   till all had been said and done, even to the last prayer of Agony in
   Gethsemane. We can scarcely err in seeing in this combination of
   foreknowledge with prudence the expression of the Divine and the Human:
   the two Natures in One Person.' The sign which Jesus gave the two
   Apostles reminds us of that by which Samuel of old had conveyed
   assurance and direction to Saul. [5601] On their entrance into Jersalem
   they would meet a man - manifestly a servant - carrying a pitcher of
   water. Without accosting, they were to follow him, and, when they
   reached the house, to deliver to its owner this message: [5602] The
   Master saith, My time is at hand - with thee [i.e. in thy house the
   emphasis is on this] I hold [5603] the Passover with My disciples.
   [5604] Where is My [5605] hostelry [or hall'], where I shall eat the
   Passover with My disciples?' [5606]

   Two things here deserve marked attention. The disciples were not bidden
   ask for the chief or Upper Chamber,' but for what we have rendered, for
   want of better, by hostelry,' or hall' - katluma - the place in the
   house where, as in an open Khan, the beasts of burden were unloaded,
   shoes and staff, or dusty garment and burdens put down - if an
   apartment, at least a common one, certain not the best. Except in this
   place, [5607] [5608] the word only occurs as the designation of the
   inn' or hostelry' in Bethlehem, where the Virgin-Mother brought forth
   her first-born Son, and laid Him in a manger. [5609] He Who was born in
   a hostelry' - Katalyma - was content to ask for His last Meal in a
   Katalyma. Only, and this we mark secondly, it must be His own: My
   Katalyma.' It was a common practice, that more than one company partook
   of the Paschal Supper in the same apartment. [5610] [5611] In the
   multitude of those who would sit down to the Paschal Supper this was
   unavoidable, for all partook of, including women and children, [5612]
   only excepting those who were Levitically unclean. And, though each
   company might not consist of less than ten, it was not to be larger
   than that each should be able to partake of at least a small portion of
   the Paschal Lamb [5613] - and we know how small lambs are in the East.
   But, while He only asked for His last Meal in the Katalyma, some hall
   opening on the open court, Christ would have it His own - to Himself,
   to eat the Passover alone with His Apostles. Not even a company of
   disciples - such as the owner of the house unquestionably was - nor
   yet, be it marked, even the Virgin-Mother, might be present; witness
   what passed, hear what He said, or be at the first Institution of His
   Holy Supper. To us at least this also recalls the words of St. Paul: I
   have received of the Lord that which I also delivered unto you.' [5614]

   There can be no reasonable doubt that, as already hinted, the owner of
   the house was a disciple, although at festive seasons unbounded
   hospitality was extended to strangers generally, and no man in
   Jerusalem considered his house as strictly his own, far less would let
   it out for hire. [5615] But no mere stranger would, in answer to so
   mysterious a message, have given up, without further questioning, his
   best room. Had he known Peter and John; or recognised Him Who sent the
   message by the announcement that it was The Master;' or by the words to
   which His Teaching had attached such meaning: that His time had come;
   or even by the peculiar emphasis of His command: With thee [5616] I
   hold the Pascha with My disciples?' It matters little which it was,
   and, in fact, the impression on the mind almost is, that the owner of
   the house had not, indeed, expected, but held himself ready for such a
   call. It was the last request of the dying Master - and could he have
   refused it? But he would do more than immediately and unquestioningly
   comply. The Master would only ask for the hall:' as He was born in a
   Katalyma, so He would have been content to eat there His last Meal - at
   the same time meal, feast, sacrifice, and institution. But the unnamed
   disciple would assign to Him, not the Hall, but the best and chiefest,
   the upper chamber,' or Aliyah, at the same time the most honourable and
   the most retired place, where from the outside stairs entrance and
   departure might be had without passing through the house. And the upper
   room' was large,' furnished and ready.' [5617] From Jewish authorities
   we know, that the average dining-apartment was computed at fifteen feet
   square; [5618] the expression furnished,' no doubt, refers to the
   arrangement of coches all round the Table, except at its end, since it
   was a canon, that the very poorest must partake of that Supper in a
   reclining attitude, to indicate rest, safety, and liberty; [5619] while
   the term ready' seems to point to the ready provision of all that was
   required for the Feast. In that case, all that the disciples would have
   to make ready' would be the Paschal Lamb,' and perhaps that first
   Chagigah, or festive Sacrifice, which, if the Paschal Lamb itself would
   not suffice for Supper, was added to it. And here it must be
   remembered, that it was of religion to fast till the Paschal Supper -
   as the Jerusalem Talmud explains, [5620] in order the better to relish
   the Supper.

   Perhaps it is not wise to attempt lifting the veil which rests on the
   unnamed such an one,' whose was the privilege of being the last Host of
   the Lord and the first Host of His Church, gathered within the new bond
   of the fellowship of His Body and Blood. And yet we can scarcely
   abstain from speculating. To us at least it seems most likely, that it
   was the house of Mark's father (then still alive) - a large one, as we
   gather from Acts xii. 13. For, the most obvious explanation of the
   introduction by St. Mark alone of such an incident as that about the
   young man who was accompanying Christ as He was led away captive, and
   who, on fleeing from those that would have laid hold on him, left in
   their hands the inner garment which he had loosely cast about him, as,
   roused from sleep, he had rushed into Gethsemane, is, that he was none
   other than St. Mark himself. If so, we can understand it all: how the
   traitor may have first brought the Temple-guards, who had come to seize
   Christ, to the house of Mark's father, where the Supper had been held,
   and that, finding Him gone, they had followed to Gethsemane, for Judas
   knew the place, for Jesus ofttimes resorted thither with His disciples'
   [5621] - and how Mark, startled from his sleep by the appearance of the
   armed men, would hastily cast about him his loose tunic and run after
   them; then, after the flight of the disciples, accompany Christ, but
   escape intended arrest by leaving his tunic in the hands of his
   would-be captors.

   If the view formerly expressed is correct, that the owner of the house
   had provided all that was needed for the Supper, Peter and John would
   find there the Wine for the four Cups, the cakes of unleavened Bread,
   and probably also the bitter herbs.' Of the latter five kinds are
   mentioned, [5622] which were to be dipped once in salt water, or
   vinegar, and another time in a mixture called Charoseth (a compound
   made of nuts, raisins, apples almonds, &c. [5623] ) - although this
   Charoseth was not obligatory. The wine was the ordinary one of the
   country, only red; it was mixed with water, generally in the proportion
   of one part to two of water. [5624] The quantity for each of the four
   Cups is stated by one authority as five-sixteenths of a log, which may
   be roughly computed at half a tumbler - of course mixed with water.
   [5625] The Paschal Cup is described (according to the rubrical measure,
   which of course would not always be observed) as two fingers long by
   two fingers broad, and its height as a finger, half a finger, and
   one-third of a finger. All things being, as we presume, ready in the
   furnished upper room, it would only remain for Peter and John to see to
   the Paschal Lamb, and anything else required for the Supper, possibly
   also to what was to be offered as Chagigah, or festive sacrifice, and
   afterwards eaten at the Supper. If the latter were to be brought, the
   disciples would, of course, have to attend earlier in the Temple. The
   cost of the Lamb, which had to be provided, was very small. So low a
   sum as about threepence of our money is mentioned for such a sacrifice.
   [5626] But this must refer to a hypothetical case rather than to the
   ordinary cost, and we prefer the more reasonable computation, from one
   Sela [5627] to three Selaim, [5628] i.e. from 2s. 6d. to 7s. 6d. of our
   money.

   If we mistake not, these purchases had, however, already been made on
   the previous afternoon by Judas. It is not likely that they would have
   been left to the last; nor that He Who had so lately condemned the
   traffic in the Courts of the Temple would have sent His two disciples
   thither to purchase the Paschal Lamb, which would have been necessary
   to secure an animal that had passed Levitical inspection, since on the
   Passover-day there would have been no time to subject it to such
   scrutiny. On the other hand, if Judas had made this purchase, we
   perceive not only on what pretext he may have gone to Jerusalem on the
   previous afternoon, but also how, on his way from the Sheep-market to
   the Temple, to have his lamb inspected, he may have learned that the
   Chief-Priests and Sanhedrists were just then in session in the Palace
   of the High-Priest close by. [5629]

   On the supposition just made, the task of Peter and John would, indeed,
   have been simple. They left the house of Mark with wondering but
   saddened hearts. Once more had they had evidence, how the Master's
   Divine glance searched the futher in all its details. They had met the
   servant with the pitcher of water; they had delivered their message to
   the master of the house; and they had seen the large Upper Room
   furnished and ready. But this prescience of Christ afforded only
   further evidence, that what He had told of His impending Crucifixion
   would also come true. And now it would be time for the ordinary
   Evening-Service and Sacrifice. Ordinarily this began about 2.30 p.m. -
   the daily Evening-Sacrifice being actually offered up about an hour
   later; but on this occasion, on account of the Feast, the Service was
   an hour earlier. [5630] As at about half-past one of our time the two
   Apostles ascended the Temple-Mount, following a dense, motley crowd of
   joyous, chatting pilgrims, they must have felt terribly lonely among
   them. In all that crowd how few to sympathise with them; how many
   enemies! The Temple-Courts were thronged to the utmost by worshippers
   from all countries and from all parts of the land. The Priests' Court
   was filled with white-robed Priests and Levites - for on that day all
   the twenty-four Courses were on duty, and all their services would be
   called for, although only the Course for that week would that afternoon
   engage in the ordinary service, which preceded that of the Feast.
   Almost mechanically would they witness the various parts of the
   well-remembered ceremonial. There must have been a peculiar meaning to
   them, a mournful significance, in the language of Ps. lxxxi., as the
   Levites chanted it that afternoon in three sections, broken three times
   by the threefold blast from the silver trumpets of the Priests.

   Before the incense was burnt for the Evening Sacrifice, or yet the
   lamps in the Golden Candlestick were trimmed for the night, the
   Paschal-Lambs were slain. The worshippers were admitted in three
   divisions within the Court of the Priests. When the first company had
   entered, the massive Nicanor Gates - which led from the Court of the
   Women to that of Israel - and the other side-gates into the Court of
   the Priests, were closed. A threefold blast from the Priests' trumpets
   intimated that the Lambs were being slain. This each Israelite did for
   himself. We can scarcely be mistaken in supposing that Peter and John
   would be in the first of the three companies into which the offerers
   were divided; for they must have been anxious to be gone, and to meet
   the Master and their brethren in that Upper Room.' Peter and John
   [5631] had slain the Lamb. In two rows the officiating Priest stood, up
   to the great Altar of Burnt-offering. As one caught up the blood from
   the dying Lamb in a golden bowl. he handed it to his colleague,
   receiving in return an empty bowl; and so the blood was passed on to
   the Great Altar, where it was jerked in one jet at the base of the
   Altar. [5632] While this was going on, the Hallel [5633] was being
   chanted by the Levites. We remember that only the first line of every
   Psalm was repeated by the worshippers; while to every other line they
   responded by a Halleluyah, till Ps. cxviii. was reached, when, besides
   the first, these three lines were also repeated: -

   Save now, I beseech Thee, Lord;

   O Lord, I beseech Thee, send now prosperity.

   Blessed be He that cometh in the Name of the Lord.

   As Peter and John repeated them on that afternoon, the words must have
   sounded most deeply significant. But their minds must have also
   reverted to that triumphal Entry into the City a few days before, when
   Israel had greeted with these words the Advent of their King. And now -
   was it not, as if it had only been an anticipation of the Hymn, when
   the blood of the Paschal Lamb was being shed?

   Little more remained to be done. The sacrifice was laid on staves which
   rested on the shoulders of Peter and John, flayed, cleansed, and the
   parts which were to be burnt on the Altar removed and prepared for
   burning. The second company of offerers could not have proceeded far in
   the service, when the Apostles, bearing their Lamb, were wending their
   way back to the home of Mark, there to make final preparations for the
   Supper.' The Lamb would be roasted on a pomegranate spit that passed
   right through it from mouth to vent, special care being taken that, in
   roasting, the Lamb did not touch the oven. Everything else, also, would
   be made ready: the Chagigah for supper (if such was used); the
   unleavened cakes, the bitter herbs, the dish with vinegar, and that
   with Charoseth would be placed on a table which could be carried in and
   moved at will; finally, the festive lamps would be prepared.

   It was probably as the sun was beginning to decline in the horizon that
   Jesus and the other ten disciples descended once more over the Mount of
   Olives into the Holy City. Before them lay Jerusalem in her festive
   attire. All around, pilgrims were hastening towards it. White tents
   dotted the sward, gay with the bright flowers of early spring, or
   peered out from the gardens or the darker foliage of the olive
   plantations. From the gorgeous Temple buildings, dazzling in their
   snow-white marble and gold, on which the slanting rays of the sun were
   reflected, rose the smoke of the Altar of Burnt-offering. These courts
   were now crowded with eager worshippers, offering for the last time, in
   the real sense, their Paschal Lambs. The streets must have been
   thronged with strangers, and the flat roofs covered with eager gazers,
   who either feasted their eyes with a first sight of the sacred City for
   which they had so often longed, or else once more rejoiced in view of
   the well-known localities. It was the last day-view which the Lord
   could take, free and unhindered, of the Holy City till His
   Resurrection. Once more, in the approaching night of His Betrayal,
   would He look upon it in the pale light of the full moon. He was going
   forward to accomplish His Death in Jerusalem; to fulfil type and
   prophecy, and to offer Himself up as the true Passover Lamb - "the Lamb
   of God, Which taketh away the sin of the world." They who followed Him
   were busy with many thoughts. They knew that terrible events awaited
   them, and they had only shortly before been told that these glorious
   Temple-buildings, to which, with a national pride not unnatural, they
   had directed the attention of their Master, were to become desolate,
   not one stone being left upon the other. Among them, revolving his dark
   plans, and goaded on by the great Enemy, moved the betrayer. And now
   they were within the City. Its Temple, its royal bridge, its splendid
   palaces, its busy marts, its streets filled with festive pilgrims, were
   well known to them, as they made their way to the house where the
   guest-chamber had been prepared. Meanwhile, the crowd came down from
   the Temple-Mount, each bearing on his shoulders the sacrificial Lamb,
   to make ready for the Paschal Supper.' [5634]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [5581] Jer. Pes. 27 d, line before last.

   [5582] The question is put in connection with Pes. i. 8.

   [5583] Ant. ii. 15. 1.

   [5584] See the Jerusalem Gemara (Jer. Pes. 27 b, towards the end). But
   the detailed quotations would here be so numerous that it seems wiser
   to omit them.

   [5585] Comp. St. Matt. xxvi. 30, 36; St. Mark xiv. 26, 32; St. Luke
   xxii. 39; St. John xviii. 1.

   [5586] The Jerusalem Talmud gives the most minute details of the places
   in which search is to be made. One Rabbi proposed that the search
   should be repeated at three different times! If it had been omitted on
   the evening of the 13th, it would be made on the forenoon of the 14th
   Nisan.

   [5587] These phrases occur frequently in Jewish writings for dying: the
   hour has come' to depart out of this world.' Thus, in Targum on Cant.
   i. 7, when the hour had come that Moses should depart out of the
   world;' Shem. R. 33, what hour the time came for our father Jacob that
   he should depart out of the world.'

   [5588] The words may also be rendered to the uttermost.' But it seems
   more natural to understand the having loved' as referring to all
   Christ's previous sayings and doings, as it were, the summing up of the
   whole past, like St. Matt. xxvi. 1: when Jesus had finished all these
   sayings,' and the other clause (He loved them to the end') as referring
   to the final and greatest manifestation of His love; the one being the
   terminus a quo, the other the terminus ad quem.

   [5589] St. Luke xxii. 7.

   [5590] ver. 13.

   [5591] ver. 14.

   [5592] ver. 15.

   [5593] It deserves notice that the latest Jewish writer on the subject
   (Joël, Blicke in d. Relig. Gesch. Part II. pp. 62 & c.) - however we
   may otherwise differ from him - has by an ingenious process of
   combination shown, that the original view expressed in Jewish writings
   was, that Jesus was crucified on the first Paschal day, and that this
   was only at a later period modified to the eve of the Pascha,' Sanh. 43
   a, 67 a (the latter in Chasr. haSh., p. 23 b).

   [5594] It has of late, however, found an advocate even in the learned
   Bishop Haneberg.

   [5595] St. John xvii. 28.

   [5596] St. John xviii. 28.

   [5597] So Archdeacon Watkins (in Excursus F, in Bp. Ellicot's
   Commentary on the N.T.,' Gospel of St. John).

   [5598] Sebbach. v. 8.

   [5599] St. Luke xxii. 8.

   [5600] St. Matthew calls him such an one' (tn dena). The details are
   furnished by St. Mark and St. Luke, and must be gathered from those
   Gospels.

   [5601] 1 Sam. x. 3.

   [5602] We combine the words from the three Synoptists.

   [5603] Literally, I do.

   [5604] St. Matthew.

   [5605] So in St Luke and also according to the better reading in St.
   Mark.

   [5606] St. Mark and St Luke.

   [5607] St. Mark xiv. 14: St. Luke xxii. 11.

   [5608] The word occurs seven times in the LXX. and twice in the
   Apocrypha (Ecclus. xiv. 25; 1 Macc. iii 45). But out of these nine
   passages only in one, 1 Sam. ix. 22, does it stand for apartment.'

   [5609] St. Luke ii. 7.

   [5610] Pes. vii. 13.

   [5611] The Mishnah explains certain regulations for such cases.
   According to the Targum Pseudo-Jon., each company was not to consist of
   less than ten persons; according to Josephus (War vi. 9. 3), of not
   more than twenty.

   [5612] Pes. viii. 1.

   [5613] Pes. viii. 2.

   [5614] 1 Cor. xi. 23.

   [5615] Yoma 12 a; Megill, 26 a.

   [5616] Comp. similarly, for example, St Mark v. 41; x. 18.

   [5617] St. Mark.

   [5618] Babha B vi. 4.

   [5619] The Talmud puts it that slaves were wont to take their meals
   standing, and that this reclining best indicated how Israel had passed
   from bondage into liberty.

   [5620] Pes. x. 1.

   [5621] St. John xviii. 1, 2.

   [5622] Pes. ii. 3

   [5623] As it was symbolic of the clay on which the children of Israel
   worked in Egypt, the rubric has it that it must be thick (Pes. 116 a).

   [5624] The contention that it was unfermented wine is not worth serious
   discussion, although in modern practice (for reasons needless to
   mention) its use is allowed.

   [5625] The whole rubric is found in Jer. Pes. 37 c. The log = to the
   contents of six eggs. Herzfeld (Handelsgesch. p. 184) makes 1/32 of a
   log = a dessert spoon. 12 log = 1 hin.

   [5626] Chag. i. 2.

   [5627] Menach. xiii. 8.

   [5628] Sheqal. ii. 4.

   [5629] But it may have been otherwise; perhaps the lamb was even
   procured by the owner of the Upper Chamber,' since it might be offered
   for another. At the same time the account in the text seems to accord
   best with the Gospel-narrative.

   [5630] If it had been the evening from Friday to Saturday, instead of
   from Thursday to Friday, it would have been two hours earlier. See the
   rubric in Pes. v. 1.

   [5631] Although, so far as we know, not of practical importance here,
   we should perhaps bear in mind that John was a priest.

   [5632] If we may suppose that there was a double row of priests to hand
   up the blood, and several to sprinkle it, or else that the blood from
   one row of sacrifices was handed to the priests in the opposite row,
   there could be no difficulty in the offering of lambs sufficient for
   all the companies,' which consisted of from ten to twenty persons.

   [5633] Ps. cxiii. to cxviii.

   [5634] The Temple and its Services,' pp. 194-195.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER X.
THE PASCHAL SUPPER - THE INSTITUTION OF THE LORD'S SUPPER.

   (St. Matt. xxvi. 17-19; St. Mark xiv. 12-16; St. Luke xxii. 7-13; St.
   John xiii. 1; St. Matt. xxvi. 20; St. Mark xiv. 17; St. Luke xxii.
   14-16; St. Luke xxii. 24-30St. Luke xxii. 17, 18; St. John xiii. 2-20;
   St. Matt. xxvi. 21-24; St. Mark xiv.18-21; St. Luke xxii. 21-23; St.
   John xiii. 21-26; St. Matt. xxvi. 25; St. John xiii. 26-38; St. Matt.
   xxvi. 26-29; St. Mark xiv. 22-25; St. Luke xxii. 19, 20.)

   THE period designated as between the two evenings,' [5635] when the
   Paschal Lamb was to be slain, was past. There can be no question that,
   in the time of Christ, it was understood to refer to the interval
   between the commencement of the sun's decline and what was reckoned as
   the hour of his final disappearance (about 6 P.M.). The first three
   stars had become visible, and the threefold blast of the Silver
   Trumpets from the Temple-Mount rang it out to Jerusalem and far away,
   that the Pascha had once more commenced. In the festively-lit Upper
   Chamber' of St. Mark's house the Master and the Twelve were now
   gathered. Was this place of Christ's last, also that of the Church's
   first, entertainment; that, where the Holy Supper was instituted with
   the Apostles, also that, where it was afterwards first partaken of by
   the Church; the Chamber where He last tarried with them before His
   Death, that in which He first appeared to them after His Resurrection;
   that, also, in which the Holy Ghost was poured out, even as (if the
   Last Supper was in the house of Mark) it undoubtedly was that in which
   the Church was at first wont to gather for common prayer? [5636] We
   know not, and can only venture to suggest, deeply soul-stirring as such
   thoughts and associations are.

   So far as appears, or we have reason to infer, this Passover was the
   only sacrifice ever offered by Jesus Himself. We remember indeed, the
   first sacrifice of the Virgin-Mother at her Purification. But that was
   hers. If Christ was in Jerusalem at any Passover before His Public
   Ministry began, He would, of course, have been a guest at some table,
   not the Head of a Company (which must consist of at least ten persons).
   Hence, He would not have been the offerer of the Paschal lamb. And of
   the three Passovers since His Public Ministry had begun, at the first
   His Twelve Apostles had not been gathered, [5637] so that He could not
   have appeared as the Head of a Company; while at the second He was not
   in Jerusalem but in the utmost parts of Galilee, in the borderland of
   Tyre and Sidon, where, of course, no sacrifice could be brought. [5638]
   Thus, the first, the last, the only sacrifice which Jesus offered was
   that in which, symbolically, He offered Himself. Again, the only
   sacrifice which He brought is that connected with the Institution of
   His Holy Supper; even as the only purification to which He submitted
   was when, in His Baptism, He sanctified water to the mystical washing
   away of sin.' But what additional meaning does this give to the words
   which He spake to the Twelve as He sat down with them to the Supper:
   With desire have I desired to eat this Pascha with you before I
   suffer.'

   And, in truth, as we think of it, we can understand not only why the
   Lord could not have offered any other Sacrifice, but that it was most
   fitting He should have offered this one Pascha, partaken of its
   commemorative Supper, and connected His own New Institution with that
   to which this Supper pointed. This joining of the Old with the New, the
   one symbolic Sacrifice which He offered with the One Real Sacrifice,
   the feast on the sacrifice with that other Feast upon the One
   Sacrifice, seems to cast light on the words with which He followed the
   expression of His longing to eat that one Pascha with them: I say unto
   you, I will not eat any more [5639] thereof, [5640]   until it be
   fulfilled in the Kingdom of God.' And has it not been so, that this His
   last Pascha is connected with that other Feast in which He is ever
   present with His Church, not only as its Food but as its Host, as both
   the Pascha and He Who dispenses it? With a Sacrament did Jesus begin
   His Ministry: it was that of separation and consecration in Baptism.
   With a second Sacrament did He close His Ministry: it was that of
   gathering together and fellowship in the Lord's Supper. Both were into
   His Death: yet not as something that had power over Him, but as a Death
   that has been followed by the Resurrection. For, if in Baptism we are
   buried with Him, we also rise with Him; and if in the Holy Supper we
   remember His Death, it is as that of Him Who is risen again - and if we
   show forth that Death, it is until He come again. And so this Supper,
   also, points forward to the Great Supper at the final consummation of
   His Kingdom.

   Only one Sacrifice did the Lord offer. We are not thinking now of the
   significant Jewish legend, which connected almost every great event and
   deliverance in Israel with the Night of the Passover. But the Pascha
   was, indeed, a Sacrifice, yet one distinct from all others. It was not
   of the Law, for it was instituted before the Law had been given or the
   Covenant ratified by blood; nay, in a sense it was the cause and the
   foundation of all the Levitical Sacrifices and of the Covenant itself.
   And it could not be classed with either one or the other of the various
   kinds of sacrifices, but rather combined them all, and yet differed
   from them all. Just as the Priesthood of Christ was real, yet not after
   the order of Aaron, so was the Sacrifice of Christ real, yet not after
   the order of Levitical sacrifices but after that of the Passover. And
   as in the Paschal Supper all Israel were gathered around the Paschal
   Lamb in commemoration of the past, in celebration of the present, in
   anticipation of the future, and in fellowship in the Lamb, so has the
   Church been ever since gathered together around its better fulfilment
   in the Kingdom of God.

   It is difficult to decide how much, not only of the present ceremonial,
   but even of the Rubric for the Paschal Supper, as contained in the
   oldest Jewish Documents, may have been obligatory at the time of
   Christ. Ceremonialism rapidly develops, too often in proportion to the
   absence of spiritual life. Probably in the earlier days, even as the
   ceremonies were simpler, so more latitude may have been left in their
   observance, provided that the main points in the ritual were kept in
   view. We may take it, that, as prescribed, all would appear at the
   Paschal Supper in festive array. We also know, that, as the Jewish Law
   directed, they reclined on pillows around a low table, each resting on
   his left hand, so as to leave the right free. But ancient Jewish usage
   casts a strange light on the painful scene with which the Supper
   opened. Sadly humiliating as it reads, and almost incredible as it
   seems, the Supper began with a contention among them, which of them
   should be accounted to be greatest.' We can have no doubt that its
   occasion was the order in which they should occupy places at the table.
   We know that this was subject of contention among the Pharisees, and
   that they claimed to be seated according to their rank. [5641] A
   similar feeling now appeared, alas! in the circle of the disciples and
   at the Last Supper of the Lord. Even if we had not further indications
   of it, we should instinctively associate such a strife with the
   presence of Judas. St. John seems to refer to it, at least indirectly,
   when he opens his narrative with this notice: And during supper, the
   devil having already cast it into his heart, that Judas Iscariot, the
   son of Simon, shall betray Him.' [5642] For, although the words form a
   general introduction to what follows, and refer to the entrance of
   Satan into the heart of Judas on the previous afternoon, when he sold
   his Master to the Sanhedrists, they are not without special
   significance as place in connection with the Supper. But we are not
   left to general conjecture in regard to the influence of Judas in this
   strife. There is, we believe, ample evidence that he not only claimed,
   but actually obtained, the chief seat at the table next to the Lord.
   This, as previously explained, was not, as is generally believed, at
   the right, but at the left of Christ, not below, but above Him, on the
   couches or pillows on which they reclined.

   From the Gospel-narratives we infer, that St. John must have reclined
   next to Jesus, on His Right Hand, since otherwise he could not have
   leaned back on His Bosom. This, as we shall presently show, would be at
   one end - the head of the table, or, to be more precise, at one end of
   the couches. For, dismissing all conventional ideas, we must think of
   it as a low Eastern table. In the Talmud, [5643] the table of the
   disciples of the sages is described as two parts covered with a cloth,
   the other third being left bare for the dishes to stand on. There is
   evidence that this part of the table was outside the circle of those
   who were ranged around it. Occasionally a ring was fixed in it, by
   which the table was suspended above the ground, so as to preserve it
   from any possible Levitical defilement. During the Paschal Supper, it
   was the custom to remove the table at one part of the service; or, if
   this be deemed a later arrangement, the dishes at least would be taken
   off and put on again. This would render it necessary that the end of
   the table should protrude beyond the line of guests who reclined around
   it. For, as already repeatedly stated, it was the custom to recline at
   table, lying on the left side and leaning on the left hand, the feet
   stretching back towards the ground, and each guest occupying a separate
   divan or pillow. It would, therefore, have been impossible to place or
   remove anything from the table from behind the guests. Hence, as a
   matter of necessity, the free end of the table, which was not covered
   with a cloth, would protrude beyond the line of those who reclined
   around it. We can now form a picture of the arrangement. Around a low
   Eastern table, oval or rather elongated, two parts covered with a
   cloth, and standing or else suspended, the single divans or pillows are
   ranged in the form of an elongated horseshoe, leaving free one end of
   the table, somewhat as in the accompanying woodcut. Here A represents
   the table, B B respectively the ends of the two rows of single divans
   on which each guest reclines on his left side, with his head (C)
   nearest the table, and his feet (D) stretching back towards the ground.

   figure 5

      Figure 5a.

   So far for the arrangement of the table. Jewish documents are equally
   explicit as to that of the guests. It seems to have been quite an
   established rule [5644] that, in a company of more than two, say of
   three, the chief personage or Head - in this instance, of course,
   Christ - reclined on the middle divan. We know from the
   Gospel-narrative that John occupied the place on His right, at that end
   of the divans - as we may call it - at the head of the table. But the
   chief place next to the Master would be that to His left, or above Him.
   In the strife of the disciples, which should be accounted the greatest,
   this had been claimed, and we believe it to have been actually
   occupied, by Judas. This explains how, Christ whispered to John by what
   sign to recognise the traitor, [5645] none of the other disciples heard
   it. It also explains, how Christ would first hand to Judas the sop,
   which formed part of the Paschal ritual, beginning with him as the
   chief guest at the table, without thereby exciting special notice.
   Lastly, it accounts for the circumstance that, when Judas, desirous of
   ascertaining whether his treachery was known, dared to ask whether it
   was he, and received the affirmative answer, [5646] no one at table
   knew what had passed. But this could not have been the case, unless
   Judas had occupied the place next to Christ; in this case, necessarily
   that at His left, or the post of chief honour. As regards Peter, we can
   quite understand how, when the Lord with such loving words rebuked
   their self-seeking and taught them of the greatness of Christian
   humility, he should, in his petuosity of shame, have rushed to take the
   lowest place at the other end of the table. [5647] Finally, we can now
   understand how Peter could beckon to John, who sat at the opposite end
   of the table, over against him, and ask him across the table, who the
   traitor was. [5648] The rest of the disciples would occupy such places
   as were most convenient, or suited their fellowship with one another.

   The words which the Master spoke as He appeased their unseemly strife
   must, indeed, have touched them to the quick. First, He showed them,
   not so much in the language of even gentlest reproof as in that of
   teaching, the difference between worldly honour and distinction in the
   Church of Christ. In the world kingship lay in supremacy and lordship,
   and the title of Benefactor accompanied the sway of power. But in the
   Church the greater' would not exercise lordship, but become as the less
   and the younger [the latter referring to the circumstance, that age
   next to learning was regarded among the Jews as a claim to distinction
   and the chief seats]; while, instead of him that had authority being
   called Benefactor, the relationship would be reversed, and he that
   served would be chief. Self-forgetful humility instead of worldly
   glory, service instead of rule: such was to be the title to greatness
   and to authority in the Church. [5649] Having thus shown them the
   character and title to that greatness in the Kingdom, which was in
   prospect for them, He pointed them in this respect also to Himself as
   their example. The reference here is, of course, not to the act of
   symbolic foot-washing, which St. Luke does not relate - although, as
   immediately following on the words of Christ, it would illustrate them
   - but to the tenor of His whole Life and the object of His Mission, as
   of One Who served, not was served. Lastly, He woke them to the higher
   consciousness of their own calling. Assuredly, they would not lose
   their reward; but not here, nor yet now. They had shared, and would
   share His trials' [5650] - His being set at nought, despised,
   persecuted; but they would also share His glory. As the Father had
   covenanted' to Him, so He covenanted' and bequeathed to them a Kingdom,
   in order,' or so that,' in it they might have festive fellowship of
   rest and of joy with Him. What to them must have been temptations,' and
   in that respect also to Christ, they had endured: instead of Messianic
   glory, such as they may at first have thought of, they had witnessed
   only contradiction, denial, and shame - and they had continued' with
   Him. But the Kingdom was also coming. When His glory was manifested,
   their acknowledgement would also come. Here Israel had rejected the
   King and His Messengers, but then would that same Israel be judged by
   their word. A Royal dignity this, indeed, but one of service; a full
   Royal acknowledgement, but one of work. In that sense were Israel's
   Messianic hopes to be understood by them. Whether or not something
   beyond this may also be implied, and, in that day when He again gathers
   the outcasts of Israel, some special Rule and Judgment may be given to
   His faithful Apostles, we venture not to determine. Sufficient for us
   the words of Christ in their primary meaning. [5651]

   So speaking, the Lord commenced that Supper, which in itself was symbol
   and pledge of what He had just said and promised. The Paschal Supper
   began, as always, [5652] by the Head of the Company taking the first
   cup, and speaking over it the thanksgiving.' The form presently in use
   consists really of two benedictions - the first over the wine, the
   second for the return of this Feastday with all that it implies, and
   for being preserved once more to witness it. [5653] Turning to the
   Gospels, the words which follow the record of the benediction on the
   part of Christ [5654] seem to imply, that Jesus had, at any rate, so
   far made use of the ordinary thanksgiving as to speak both these
   benedictions. We know, indeed, that they were in use before His time,
   since it was in dispute between the Schools of Hillel and Shammai,
   whether that over the wine or that over the day should take precedence.
   That over the wine was quite simple: Blessed art Thou, Jehovah our God,
   Who hast created the fruit of the Vine!' The formula was so often used
   in blessing the cup, and is so simple, that we need not doubt that
   these were the very words spoken by our Lord. It is otherwise as
   regards the benediction over the day,' which is not only more
   composite, but contains words expressive of Israel's national pride and
   self-righteousness, such as we cannot think would have been uttered by
   our Lord. With this exception, however, they were no doubt identical in
   contents with the present formula. This we infer from what the Lord
   added, as He passed the cup round the circle of the disciples. [5655]
   No more, so He told them, would He speak the benediction over the fruit
   of the vine - not again utter the thanks over the day' that they had
   been preserved alive, sustained, and brought to this season.' Another
   Wine, and at another Feast, now awaited Him - that in the future, when
   the Kingdom would come. It was to be the last of the old Paschas; the
   first, or rather the symbol and promise, of the new. And so, for the
   first and last time, did He speak the twofold benediction at the
   beginning of the Supper.

   The cup, in which, according to express Rabbinic testimony, [5656] the
   wine had been mixed with water before it was blessed,' had passed
   round. The next part of the ceremonial was for the Head of the Company
   to rise and wash hands.' It is this part of the ritual of which St.
   John [5657] records the adaptation and transformation on the part of
   Christ. The washing of the disciples' feet is evidently connected with
   the ritual of handwashing.' Now this was done twice during the Paschal
   Supper: [5658] the first time by the Head of the Company alone,
   immediately after the first cup; the second time by all present, at a
   much later part of the service, immediately before the actual meal (on
   the Lamb, &c.). If the footwashing had taken place on the latter
   occasion, it is natural to suppose that, when the Lord rose, all the
   disciples would have followed His example, and so the washing of their
   feet would have been impossible. Again, the footwashing, which was
   intended both as a lesson and as an example of humility and service,
   [5659] was evidently connected with the dispute which of them should be
   accounted to be greatest.' If so, the symbolical act of our Lord must
   have followed close on the strife of the disciples, and on our Lord's
   teaching what in the Church constituted rule and greatness. Hence the
   act must have been connected with the first handwashing - that by the
   Head of the Company - immediately after the first cup, and not with
   that at a later period, when much else had intervened.

   All else fits in with this. For clearness' sake, the account given by
   St. John [5660] may here be recapitulated. The opening words concerning
   the love of Christ to His own unto the end form the general
   introduction. [5661] Then follows the account of what happened during
   Supper' [5662] - the Supper itself being left undescribed - beginning,
   by way of explanation of what is to be told about Judas, with this: The
   Devil having already cast into his (Judas') heart, that Judas Iscariot,
   the son of Simon, shall betray Him.' General as this notice is, it
   contains much that requires special attention. Thankfully we feel, that
   the heart of man was not capable of originating the Betrayal of Christ;
   humanity had fallen, but not so low. It was the Devil who had cast' it
   into Judas' heart - with force and overwhelming power. [5663] Next, we
   mark the full description of the name and parentage of the traitor. It
   reads like the wording of a formal indictment. And, although it seems
   only an introductory explanation, it also points to the contrast with
   the love of Christ which persevered to the end, [5664] even when hell
   itself opened its mouth to swallow Him up; the contrast, also, between
   what Jesus and what Judas were about to do, and between the wild storm
   of evil that raged in the heart of the traitor and the calm majesty of
   love and peace which reigned in that of the Saviour.

   If what Satan had cast into the heart of Judas explains his conduct so
   does the knowledge which Jesus possessed account for that He was about
   to do. [5665] [5666] Many as are the thoughts suggested by the words,
   Knowing that the Father had given all things into His Hands, and that
   He came forth from God, and goeth unto God' - yet, from evident
   connection, they must in the first instance be applied to the
   Footwashing, of which they are, so to speak, the logical antecedent. It
   was His greatest act of humiliation and service, and yet He never lost
   in it for one moment aught of the majesty or consciousness of His
   Divine dignity; for He did it with the full knowledge and assertion
   that all things were in His Hands, and that He came forth from and was
   going unto God - and He could do it, because He knew this. Here, not
   side by side, but in combination, are the Humiliation and Exaltation of
   the God-Man. And so, during Supper,' which had begun with the first
   cup, He riseth from Supper.' The disciples would scarcely marvel,
   except that He should conform to that practice of handwashing, which,
   as He had often explained, was, as a ceremonial observance, unavailing
   for those who were not inwardly clean, and needless and unmeaning in
   them whose heart and life had been purified. But they must have
   wondered as they saw Him put off His upper garment, gird Himself with a
   towel, and pour water into a basin, like a slave who was about to
   perform the meanest service.

   From the position which, as we have shown, Peter occupied at the end of
   the table, it was natural that the Lord should begin with him the act
   of footwashing. [5667] Besides, had He first turned to others, Peter
   must either have remonstrated before, or else his later expostulation
   would have been tardy, and an act either of self-righteousness or of
   needless voluntary humility. As it was, the surprise with which he and
   the others had witnessed the preparation of the Lord burst into
   characteristic language when Jesus approached him to wash his feet.
   Lord - Thou - of me washest the feet!' It was the utterance of deepest
   reverence for the Master, and yet of utter misunderstanding of the
   meaning of His action, perhaps even of His Work. Jesus was now doing
   what before He had spoken. The act of externalism and
   self-righteousness represented by the washing of hands, and by which
   the Head of the Company was to be distinguished from all others and
   consecrated, He changed into a footwashing, in which the Lord and
   Master was to be distinguished, indeed, from the others - but by the
   humblest service of love, and in which He showed by His example what
   characterised greatness in the Kingdom, and that service was evidence
   of rule. And, as mostly in every symbol, there was the real also in
   this act of the Lord. For, by sympathetically sharing in this act of
   love and service on the part of the Lord, they who had been bathed -
   who had previously become clean in heart and spirit - now received also
   that cleansing of the feet,' of active and daily walk, which cometh
   from true heart-humility, in opposition to pride, and consisteth in the
   service which love is willing to render even to the uttermost.

   But Peter had understood none of these things. He only felt the
   incongruousness of their relative positions. And so the Lord, partly
   also wishing thereby to lead his impetuosity to the absolute submission
   of faith, and partly to indicate the deeper truth he was to learn in
   the future, only told him, that though he knew it not now, he would
   understand hereafter what the Lord was doing. Yes, hereafter - when,
   after that night of terrible fall, he would learn by the Lake of
   Galilee what it really meant to feed the lambs and to tend the sheep of
   Christ; yes, hereafter - when no longer, as when he had been young, he
   would gird himself and walk whither he would. But, even so, Peter could
   not content himself with the prediction that in the future he would
   understand and enter into what Christ was doing in washing their feet.
   Never, he declared, could he allow it. The same feelings, which had
   prompted him to attempt withdrawing the Lord from the path of
   humiliation and suffering, [5668] now asserted themselves again. It was
   personal affection, indeed, but it was also unwillingness to submit to
   the humiliation of the Cross. And so the Lord told him, that if He
   washed him not, he had no part with Him. Not that the bare act of
   washing gave him part in Christ, but that the refusal to submit to it
   would have deprived him of it; and that, to share in this washing, was,
   as it were, the way to have part in Christ's service of love, to enter
   into it, and to share it.

   Still, Peter did not understand. But as, on that morning by the Lake of
   Galilee, it appeared that, when he had lost all else, he had retained
   love, so did love to the Christ now give him the victory - and, once
   more with characteristic impetuosity, he would have tendered not only
   his feet to be washed, but his hands and head. Yet here, also, was
   there misunderstanding. There was deep symbolical meaning, not only in
   that Christ did it, but also in what He did. Submission to His doing it
   meant symbolically share and part with Him - part in His Work. What He
   did, meant His work and service of love; the constant cleansing of
   one's walk and life in the love of Christ, and in the service of that
   love. It was not a meaningless ceremony of humiliation on the part of
   Christ, not yet one where submission to the utmost was required; but
   the action was symbolic, and meant that the disciple, who was already
   bathed and made clean in heart and spirit, required only this - to wash
   his feet in spiritual consecration to the service of love which Christ
   had here shown forth in symbolic act. And so His Words referred not, as
   is so often supposed, to the forgiveness of our daily sins - the
   introduction of which would have been wholly abrupt and unconnected
   with the context - but, in contrast to all self-seeking, to the daily
   consecration of our life to the service of love after the example of
   Christ.

   And still do all these words come to us in manifold and ever-varied
   application. In the misunderstanding of our love to Him, we too often
   imagine that Christ cannot will or do what seems to us incongruous on
   His part, or rather, incongruous with what we think about Him. We know
   it not now, but we shall understand it hereafter. And still we persist
   in our resistance, till it comes to us that so we would even lose our
   part in and with Him. Yet not much, not very much, does He ask, Who
   giveth so much. He that has washed us wholly would only have us cleanse
   our feet for the service of love, as He gave us the example.

   They were clean, these disciples, but not all. For He knew that there
   was among them he that was betraying Him.' [5669] He knew it, but not
   with the knowledge of an inevitable fate impending far less of an
   absolute decree, but with that knowledge which would again and again
   speak out the warning, if by any means he might be saved. What would
   have come, if Judas had repented, is as idle a question as this: What
   would have come if Israel, as a nation, had repented and accepted
   Christ? For, from our human standpoint, we can only view the human
   aspect of things - that earthwards; and here every action is not
   isolated, but ever the outcome of a previous development and history,
   so that a man always freely acts, yet always in consequence of an
   inward necessity.

   The solemn service of Christ now went on in the silence of reverent
   awe. [5670] None dared ask Him nor resist. It was ended, and He had
   resumed His upper garment, and again taken His place at the Table. It
   was His now to follow the symbolic deed by illustrative words, and to
   explain the practical application of what had just been done. Let it
   not be misunderstood. They were wont to call Him by the two highest
   names of Teacher and Lord, and these designations were rightly His. For
   the first time He fully accepted and owned the highest homage. How much
   more, then, must His Service of love, Who was their Teacher and Lord,
   serve as example [5671] of what was due [5672] by each to his
   fellow-disciple and fellow-servant! He, Who really was Lord and Master,
   had rendered this lowest service to them as an example that, as He had
   done, so should they do. No principle better known, almost proverbial
   in Israel, than that a servant was not to claim greater honour than his
   master, nor yet he that was sent than he who had sent him. They knew
   this, and now also the meaning of the symbolic act of footwashing; and
   if they acted it out, then theirs would be the promised Beatitude.'
   [5673]

   This reference to what were familiar expressions among the Jews,
   especially noteworthy in St. John's Gospel, leads us to supplement a
   few illustrative notes from the same source. The Greek word for the
   towel,' with which our Lord girded Himself, occurs also in Rabbinic
   writings, to denote the towel used in washing and at baths (Luntith and
   Aluntith). Such girding was the common mark of a slave, by whom the
   service of footwashing was ordinarily performed. And, in a very
   interesting passage, the Midrash [5674] contrasts what, in this
   respect, is the way of man with what God had done for Israel. For, He
   had been described by the prophet as performing for them the service of
   washing, [5675] and others usually rendered by slaves. [5676] Again,
   the combination of these two designations, Rabbi and Lord,' or Rabbi,
   Father, and Lord,' was among those most common on the part of
   disciples. [5677] The idea, that if a man knows (for example, the Law)
   and does not do it, it were better for him not to have been created,
   [5678] is not unfrequently expressed. But the most interesting
   reference is in regard to the relation between the sender and the sent,
   and a servant and his master. In regard to the former, it is
   proverbially said, that while he that is sent stands on the same
   footing as he who sent him, [5679] yet he must expect less honour.
   [5680] And as regards Christ's statement that the servant is not
   greater than his Master,' there is a passage in which we read this, in
   connection with the sufferings of the Messiah: It is enough for the
   servant that he be like his Master.' [5681]

   But to return. The footwashing on the part of Christ, in which Judas
   had shared, together with the explanatory words that followed, almost
   required, in truthfulness, this limitation: I speak not of you all.'
   For it would be a night of terrible moral sifting to them all. A solemn
   warning was needed by all the disciples. But, besides, the treachery of
   one of their own number might have led them to doubt whether Christ had
   really Divine knowledge. On the other hand, this clear prediction of it
   would not only confirm their faith in Him, but show that there was some
   deeper meaning in the presence of a Judas among them. [5682] We come
   here upon these words of deepest mysteriousness: I know those I chose;
   but that the Scripture may be fulfilled, He that eateth My Bread
   lifteth up his heel against Me!' [5683] It were almost impossible to
   believe, even if not forbidden by the context, that this knowledge of
   which Christ spoke, referred to an eternal foreknowledge; still more,
   that it meant Judas had been chosen with such foreknowledge in order
   that this terrible Scripture might be fulfilled in him. Such
   foreknowledge and foreordination would be to sin, and it would involve
   thoughts such as only the harshness of our human logic in its fatal
   system-making could induce anyone to entertain. Rather must we
   understand it as meaning that Jesus had, from the first, known the
   inmost thoughts of those He had chosen to be His Apostles; but that by
   this treachery of one of their number, the terrible prediction of the
   worst enmity, that of ingratitude, true in all ages of the Church,
   would receive its complete fulfilment. [5684] The word that' - that the
   Scripture may be fulfilled,' does not mean in order that,' or for the
   purpose of;' it never means this in that connection; [5685] and it
   would be altogether irrational to suppose that an event happened in
   order that a special prediction might be fulfilled. Rather does it
   indicate the higher internal connection in the succession of events,
   when an event had taken place in the free determination of its agents,
   by which, all unknown to them and unthought of by others, that
   unexpectedly came to pass which had been Divinely foretold. And herein
   appears the Divine character of prophecy, which is always at the same
   time announcement and forewarning, that is, has besides its predictive
   a moral element: that, while man is left to act freely, each
   development tends to the goal Divinely foreseen and foreordained. Thus
   the word that' marks not the connection between causation and effect,
   but between the Divine antecedent and the human subsequent.

   There is, indeed, behind this a much deeper question, to which brief
   reference has already formerly been made. Did Christ know from the
   beginning that Judas would betray Him, and yet, so knowing, did He
   choose him to be one of the Twelve? Here we can only answer by
   indicating this as a canon in studying the Life on earth of the
   God-Man, that it was part of His Self-exinanition - of that emptying
   Himself, and taking upon Him the form of a Servant [5686] - voluntarily
   to forego His Divine knowledge in the choice of His Human actions. So
   only could He, as perfect Man, have perfectly obeyed the Divine Law.
   For, if the Divine had determined Him in the choice of His Actions,
   there could have been no merit attaching to His Obedience, nor could He
   be said to have, as perfect Man, taken our place, and to have obeyed
   the Law in our stead and as our Representative, nor yet be our
   Ensample. But if His Divine knowledge did not guide Him in the choice
   of His actions, we can see, and have already indicated, reasons why the
   discipleship and service of Judas should have been accepted, if it had
   been only as that of a Judæan, a man in many respects well fitted for
   such an office, and the representative of one of the various directions
   which tended towards the reception of the Messiah.

   We are not in circumstances to judge whether or not Christ spoke all
   these things continuously, after He had sat down, having washed the
   disciples' feet. More probably it was at different parts of the meal.
   This would also account for the seeming abruptness of this concluding
   sentence: [5687] He that receiveth whomsoever I send receiveth Me.' And
   yet the internal connection of thought seems clear. The apostasy and
   loss of one of the Apostles was known to Christ. Would it finally
   dissolve the bond that bound together the College of Apostles, and so
   invalidate their Divine Mission (the Apostolate) and its authority? The
   words of Christ conveyed an assurance which would be most comforting in
   the future, that any such break would not be lasting, only transitory,
   and that in this respect also the foundation of God standeth.'

   In the meantime the Paschal Supper was proceeding. We mark this
   important note of time in the words of St. Matthew: as they were
   eating,' [5688] or, as St. Mark expresses it, as they reclined and were
   eating.' [5689] According to the Rubric, after the washing' the dishes
   were immediately to be brought on the table. Then the Head of the
   Company would dip some of the bitter herbs into the salt-water or
   vinegar, speak a blessing, and partake of them, then hand them to each
   in the company. Next, he would break one of the unleavened cakes
   (according to the present ritual the middle of the three), of which
   half was put aside for after supper. This is called the Aphiqomon, or
   after-dish, and as we believe that the bread' of the Holy Eucharist was
   the Aphiqomon, some particulars may here be of interest. The dish in
   which the broken cake lies (not the Aphiqomon), is elevated, and these
   words are spoken: This is the bread of misery which our fathers ate in
   the land of Egypt. All that are hungry, come and eat; all that are
   needy, come, keep the Pascha.' In the more modern ritual the words are
   added: This year here, next year in the land of Israel; this year
   bondsmen, next year free!' On this the second cup is filled, and the
   youngest in the company is instructed to make formal inquiry as to the
   meaning of all the observances of that night, [5690] when the Liturgy
   proceeds to give full answers as regards the festival, its occasion,
   and ritual. The Talmud adds that the table is to be previously removed,
   so as to excite the greater curiosity. [5691] We do not suppose that
   even the earlier ritual represents the exact observances at the time of
   Christ, or that, even if it does so, they were exactly followed at that
   Paschal Table of the Lord. But so much stress is laid in Jewish
   writings on the duty of fully rehearsing at the Paschal Supper the
   circumstances of the first Passover and the deliverance connected with
   it, that we can scarcely doubt that what the Mishnah declares as so
   essential formed part of the services of that night. And as we think of
   our Lord's comment on the Passover and Israel's deliverance, the words
   spoken when the unleavened cake was broken come back to us, and with
   deeper meaning attaching to them.

   After this the cup is elevated, and then the service proceeds somewhat
   lengthily, the cup being raised a second time and certain prayers
   spoken. This part of the service concludes with the two first Psalms in
   the series called the Hallel,' [5692] when the cup is raised a third
   time, a prayer spoken, and the cup drunk. This ends the first part of
   the service. And now the Paschal meal begins by all washing their hands
   - a part of the ritual which we scarcely think Christ observed. It was,
   we believe, during this lengthened exposition and service that the
   trouble in spirit' of which St. John speaks [5693] passed over the soul
   of the God-Man. Almost presumptuous as it seems to inquire into its
   immediate cause, we can scarcely doubt that it concerned not so much
   Himself as them. His Soul could not, indeed, but have been troubled,
   as, with full consciousness of all that it would be to Him - infinitely
   more than merely human suffering - He looked down into the abyss which
   was about to open at His Feet. But He saw more than even this. He saw
   Judas about to take the last fatal step, and His Soul yearned in pity
   over him. The very sop which He would so soon hand to him, although a
   sign of recognition to John, was a last appeal to all that was human in
   Judas. And, besides all this, Jesus also saw, how, all unknown to them,
   the terrible tempest of fierce temptation would that night sweep over
   them; how it would lay low and almost uproot one of them, and scatter
   all. It was the beginning of the hour of Christ's utmost loneliness, of
   which the climax was reached in Gethsemane. And in the trouble of His
   Spirit did He solemnly testify' to them of the near Betrayal. We wonder
   not, that they all became exceeding sorrowful, and each asked, Lord, is
   it I?' This question on the part of the eleven disciples, who were
   conscious of innocence of any purpose of betrayal, and conscious also
   of deep love to the Master, affords one of the clearest glimpses into
   the inner history of that Night of Terror, in which, so to speak,
   Israel became Egypt. We can now better understand their heavy sleep in
   Gethsemane, their forsaking Him and fleeing, even Peter's denial.
   Everything must have seemed to these men to give way; all to be
   enveloped in outer darkness, when each man could ask whether he was to
   be the Betrayer.

   The answer of Christ left the special person undetermined, while it
   again repeated the awful prediction - shall we not add, the most solemn
   warning - that it was one of those who took part in the Supper. It is
   at this point that St. John resumes the thread of the narrative. [5694]
   As he describes it, the disciples were looking one on another, doubting
   of whom He spake. In this agonising suspense Peter beckoned from across
   the table to John, whose head, instead of leaning on his hand, rested,
   in the absolute surrender of love and intimacy born of sorrow, on the
   bosom of the Master. [5695] Peter would have John ask of whom Jesus
   spake. [5696] And to the whispered question of John, leaning back as he
   was on Jesus' breast,' the Lord gave the sign, that it was he to whom
   He would give the sop' when He had dipped it. Even this perhaps was not
   clear to John, since each one in turn received the sop.'

   At present, the Supper itself begins by eating, first, a piece of the
   unleavened cake, then of the bitter herbs dipped in Charoseth, and
   lastly two small pieces of the unleavened cake, between which a piece
   of bitter radish has been placed. But we have direct testimony, that,
   about the time of Christ, [5697] the sop' [5698] which was handed round
   consisted of these things wrapped together: flesh of the Paschal Lamb,
   a piece of unleavened bread, and bitter herbs. [5699] This, we believe,
   was the sop,' which Jesus, having dipped it for him in the dish, handed
   first to Judas, as occupying the first and chief place at Table. But
   before He did so, probably while He dipped it in the dish, Judas, who
   could not but fear that his purpose might be known, reclining at
   Christ's left hand, whispered into the Master's ear, Is it I, Rabbi?'
   It must have been whispered, for no one at the Table could have heard
   either the question of Judas or the affirmative answer of Christ.
   [5700] It was the last outgoing of the pitying love of Christ after the
   traitor. Coming after the terrible warning and woe on the Betrayer,
   [5701] it must be regarded as the final warning and also the final
   attempt at rescue on the part of the Saviour. It was with full
   knowledge of all, even of this that his treachery was known, though he
   may have attributed the information not to Divine insight but to some
   secret human communication, that Judas went on his way to destruction.
   We are too apt to attribute crimes to madness; but surely there is
   normal, as well as mental mania; and it must have been in a paroxysm of
   that, when all feeling was turned to stone, and mental self-delusion
   was combined with moral perversion, that Judas took' [5702] from the
   Hand of Jesus the sop.' It was to descend alive into the grave - and
   with a heavy sound the gravestone fell and closed over the mouth of the
   pit. That moment Satan entered again into his heart. But the deed was
   virtually done; and Jesus, longing for the quiet fellowship of His own
   with all that was to follow, bade him do quickly that he did.

   But even so there are questions connected with the human motives that
   actuated Judas, to which, however, we can only give the answer of some
   suggestions. Did Judas regard Christ's denunciation of woe' on the
   Betrayer not as a prediction, but as intended to be deterrent - perhaps
   in language Orientally exaggerated - or if he regarded it as a
   prediction, did he not believe in it? Again, when after the plain
   intimation of Christ and His Words to do quickly what he was about to
   do, Judas still went to the betrayal, could he have had an idea -
   rather, sought to deceive himself, that Jesus felt that He could not
   escape His enemies, and that He rather wished it to be all over? Or had
   all his former feelings towards Jesus turned, although temporarily,
   into actual hatred which every Word and Warning of Christ only
   intensified? But above all and in all we have, first and foremost, to
   think of the peculiarly Judaic character of his first adherence to
   Christ; of the gradual and at last final and fatal disenchantment of
   his hopes; of his utter moral, consequent upon his spiritual, failure;
   of the change of all that had in it the possibility of good into the
   actuality of evil; and, on the other hand, of the direct agency of
   Satan in the heart of Judas, which his moral and spiritual ship-wreck
   rendered possible.

   From the meal scarcely begun Judas rushed into the dark night. Even
   this has its symbolic significance. None there knew why this strange
   haste, unless from obedience to something that the Master had bidden
   him. [5703] Even John could scarely have understood the sign which
   Christ had given of the traitor. Some of them thought, he had been
   directed by the words of Christ to purchase what was needful for the
   feast: others, that he was bidden go and give something to the poor.
   Gratuitous objection has been raised, as if this indicated that,
   according to the Fourth Gospel, this meal had not taken place on the
   Paschal night, since, after the commencement of the Feast (on the 15th
   Nisan), it would be unlawful to make purchases. But this certainly was
   not the case. Sufficient here to state, that the provision and
   preparation of the needful food, and indeed of all that was needful for
   the Feast, was allowed on the 15th Nisan. [5704] And this must have
   been specially necessary when, as in this instance, the first festive
   day, or 15th Nisan, was to be followed by a Sabbath, on which no such
   work was permitted. On the other hand, the mention of these two
   suggestions by the disciples seems almost necessarily to involve, that
   the writer of the Fourth Gospel had placed this meal in the Paschal
   Night. Had it been on the evening before, no one could have imagined
   that Judas had gone out during the night to buy provisions, when there
   was the whole next day for it, nor would it have been likely that a man
   should on any ordinary day go at such an hour to seek out the poor. But
   in the Paschal Night, when the great Temple-gates were opened at
   midnight to begin early preparations for the offering of the Chagigah,
   or festive sacrifice, which was not voluntary but of due, and the
   remainder of which was afterwards eaten at a festive meal, such
   preparations would be quite natural. And equally so, that the poor, who
   gathered around the Temple, might then seek to obtain the help of the
   charitable.

   The departure of the betrayer seemed to clear the atmosphere. He was
   gone to do his work; but let it not be thought that it was the
   necessity of that betrayal which was the cause of Christ's suffering of
   soul. He offered Himself willingly - and though it was brought about
   through the treachery of Judas, yet it was Jesus Himself Who freely
   brought Himself a Sacrifice, in fulfilment of the work which the Father
   had given Him. And all the more did He realise and express this on the
   departure of Judas. So long as he was there, pitying love still sought
   to keep him from the fatal step. But when the traitor was at last gone,
   the other side of His own work clearly emerged into Christ's view. And
   this voluntary sacrifical aspect is further clearly indicated by His
   selection of the terms Son of Man' and God' instead of Son' and
   Father.' [5705] Now is glorified the Son of Man, and God is glorified
   in Him. [5706] And God shall glorify Him in Himself, and straightway
   shall He glorify Him.' If the first of these sentences expressed the
   meaning of what was about to take place, as exhibiting the utmost glory
   of the Son of Man in the triumph of the obedience of His Voluntary
   Sacrfice, the second sentence pointed out its acknowledgment by God:
   the exaltation which followed the humiliation, the reward [5707] as the
   necessary sequel of the work, the Crown after the Cross.

   Thus far for one aspect of what was about to be enacted. As for the
   other - that which concerned the disciples: only a little while would
   He still be with them. Then would come the time of sad and sore
   perplexity - when they would seek Him, but could not come whither He
   had gone - during the terrible hours between His Crucifixion and His
   manifested Resurrection. With reference to that period especially, but
   in general to the whole time of His Separation from the Church on
   earth, the great commandment, the bond which alone would hold them
   together, was that of love one to another, and such love as that which
   He had shown towards them. And this - shame on us, as we write it! -
   was to be the mark to all men of their discipleship. [5708] As recorded
   by St. John, the words of the Lord were succeeded by a question of
   Peter, indicating perplexity as to the primary and direct meaning of
   Christ's going away. On this followed Christ's reply about the
   impossibility of Peter's now sharing his Lord's way of Passion, and, in
   answer to the disciple's impetuous assurance of his readiness to follow
   the Master not only into peril, but to lay down his Life for Him, the
   Lord's indication of Peter's present unpreparedness and the prediction
   of His impending denial. It may have been, that all this occurred in
   the Supper-Chamber and at the time indicated by St. John. But it is
   also recorded by the Synoptists as on the way to Gethsemane, and in,
   what we may term, a more natural connection. Its consideration will
   therefore be best reserved till we reach that stage of the history.

   We now approach the most solemn part of that night: The Institution of
   the Lord's Supper. It would manifestly be beyond the object, as
   assuredly it would necessarily stretch beyond the limits, of the
   present work, to discuss the many questions and controversies which,
   alas! have gathered around the Words of the Institution. On the other
   hand, it would not be truthful wholly to pass them by. On certain
   points, indeed, we need have no hesitation. The Institution of the
   Lord's Supper is recorded by the Synoptists, although without reference
   to those parts of the Paschal Supper and its Services with which one or
   another of its acts must be connected. In fact, while the historical
   nexus with the Paschal Supper is evident, it almost seems as if the
   Evangelists had intended, by their studied silence in regard to the
   Jewish Feast, to indicate that with this Celebration and the new
   Institution the Jewish Passover had for ever ceased. On the other hand,
   the Fourth Gospel does not record the new Institution - it may have
   been, because it was so fully recorded by the others; or for reasons
   connected with the structure of that Gospel; or it may be accounted for
   on other grounds. [5709] But whatever way we may account for it, the
   silence of the Fourth Gospel must be a sore difficulty to those who
   regard it as an Ephesian product of symbolico-sacramentarian tendency,
   dating from the second century.

   The absence of a record by St. John is compensated by the narrative of
   St Paul in 1 Cor. xi. 23-26, to which must be added as supplementary
   the reference in 1 Cor. x. 16 to the Cup of Blessing which we bless' as
   fellowship of the Blood of Christ, and the Bread which we break' as
   fellowship of the Body of Christ.' We have thus four accounts, which
   may be divided into two groups: St Matthew and St. Mark, and St. Luke
   and St. Paul. None of these give us the very words of Christ, since
   these were spoken in Aramæan. In the renderings which we have of them
   one series may be described as the more rugged and literal, the other
   as the more free and paraphrastic. The differences between them are, of
   course, exceedingly minute; but they exist. As regards the text which
   underlies the rendering in our A.V., the difference suggested are not
   of any practical importance, [5710] with the exception of two points.
   First, the copula is' [This is My Body,' This is My Blood'] was
   certainly not spoken by the Lord in the Aramaic, just as it does not
   occur in the Jewish formula in the breaking of bread at the beginning
   of the Paschal Supper. Secondly, the words: Body which is given,' or,
   in 1 Cor. xi. 24, broken,' and Blood which is shed,' should be more
   correctly rendered: is being given,' broken,' shed.'

   If we now ask ourselves at what part of the Paschal Supper the new
   Institution was made, we cannot doubt that it was before the Supper was
   completely ended. [5711] We have seen, that Judas had left the Table at
   the beginning of the Supper. The meal continued to its end, amidst such
   conversation as has already been noted. According to the Jewish ritual,
   the third Cup was filled at the close of the Supper. This was called,
   as by St. Paul, [5712] the Cup of Blessing,' partly, because a special
   blessing' was pronounced over it. It is described as one of the ten
   essential rites in the Paschal Supper. Next, grace after meat' was
   spoken. But on this we need not dwell, nor yet on the washing of hands'
   that followed. The latter would not be observed by Jesus as a religious
   ceremony; while, in regard to the former, the composite character of
   this part of the Paschal Liturgy affords internal evidence that it
   could not have been in use at the time of Christ. But we can have
   little doubt, that the Institution of the Cup was in connection with
   this third Cup of Blessing.' [5713] If we are asked, what part of the
   Paschal Service corresponds to the Breaking of Bread,' we answer, that
   this being really the last Pascha, and the cessation of it, our Lord
   anticipated the later rite, introduced when, with the destruction of
   the Temple, the Paschal as all other Sacrifices ceased. While the
   Paschal Lamb was still offered, it was the Law that, after partaking of
   its flesh, nothing else should be eaten. But since the Paschal Lamb had
   ceased, it is the custom after the meal to break and partake as
   Aphikomon, or after-dish, of that half of the unleavened cake, which,
   as will be remembered, had been broken and put aside at the beginning
   of the Supper. The Paschal Sacrifice having now really ceased, and
   consciously so to all the disciples of Christ, He anticipated this, and
   connected with the breaking of the Unleavened Cake at the close of the
   Meal the institution of the breaking of Bread in the Holy Eucharist.

   What did the Institution really mean, and what does it mean to us? We
   cannot believe that it was intended as merely a sign for remembrance of
   His Death. Such remembrance is often equally vivid in ordinary acts of
   faith or prayer; and it seems difficult, if no more than this had been
   intended, to account for the Institution of a special Sacrament, and
   that with such solemnity, and as the second great rite of the Church -
   that for its nourishment. Again, if it were a mere token of
   remembrance, why the Cup as well as the Bread? Nor can we believe, that
   the copula is' - which, indeed, did not occur in the words spoken by
   Christ Himself - can be equivalent to signifies.' As little can it
   refer to any change of substance, be it in what is called
   Transubstantiation or Consubstantiation. If we may venture an
   explanation, it would be that this,' received in the Holy Eucharist,
   conveys to the soul as regards the Body and Blood of the Lord, the same
   effect as the Bread and the Wine to the body - receiving of the Bread
   and the Cup in the Holy Communion is, really, though spiritually, to
   the Soul what the outward elements are to the Body: that they are both
   the symbol and the vehicle of true, inward, spiritual feeding on the
   Very Body and Blood of Christ. So is this Cup which we bless fellowship
   of His Blood, and the Bread we break of His Body - fellowship with Him
   Who died for us, and in His dying; fellowship also in Him with one
   another, who are joined together in this, that for us this Body was
   given, and for the remission of our sins this precious Blood was shed.
   [5714]

   Most mysterious words these, yet most blessed mystery this of feeding
   on Christ spiritually and in faith. Most mysterious - yet he who takes
   from us our mystery takes from us our Sacrament.' [5715] And ever since
   has this blessed Institution lain as the golden morning-light far out
   even in the Church's darkest night - not only the seal of His Presence
   and its pledge, but also the promise of the bright Day at His Coming.
   For as often as we eat this Bread and drink this Cup, we do show forth
   the Death of the Lord' - for the life of the world, to be assuredly yet
   manifested - till He come.' Even so, Lord Jesus, come quickly!'
     __________________________________________________________________

   [5635] Ex. xii. 6; Lev. xxiii.5; Numb. ix. 3, 5.

   [5636] Acts xii. 12, 25.

   [5637] St. John ii. 13.

   [5638] St. Matt. xv. 21, &c.

   [5639] We prefer retaining this in the text.

   [5640] Such would still be the meaning, even if the accusative it' were
   regarded as the better reading.

   [5641] Wünsche (on St. John xiii. 2) refers to Pes. 108 a, and states
   in a somewhat general way that no order of rank was preserved at the
   Paschal Table. But the passage he quotes does not imply this - only,
   that without distinction of rank all sat down at the same table, but
   not that the well-established order of sitting was infringed. The
   Jerusalem Talmud says nothing on the subject. The Gospel-narrative, of
   course, expressly states that there was a contention about rank among
   the disciples. In general, there are a number of inaccuracies in the
   part of Wünsche's Notes referring to the Last Supper.

   [5642] St. John xiii. 2

   [5643] B Bathr 57 b.

   [5644] Ber. 46 b; Tos. Ber. v.; Jer. Taan, 68 a, towards the bottom.

   [5645] St. John xiii. 26.

   [5646] St. Matt. xxvi. 25.

   [5647] It seems almost incomprehensible, that Commentators, who have
   not thought this narrative misplaced by St. Luke, should have
   attributed the strife to Peter and John, the former being jealous of
   the place of honour which the beloved Disciple' had obtained. (So Nebe,
   Leidensgesch.; the former even Calvin.)

   [5648] St. John xiii. 24.

   [5649] St. Luke xxii. 25, 28.

   [5650] Not temptation' - i.e. not assaults from within, but assults
   from without.

   [5651] The sitting down with Him' at the feast is evidently a promise
   of joy, reward, and fellowship. The sitting on thrones and judging
   Israel must be taken as in contrast to the temptation' of the
   contradiction of Christ and of their Apostolic message - as their
   vindication against Israel's present gainsaying.

   [5652] Pes. x. 2.

   [5653] The whole formula is given in The Temple and its Services,' pp.
   204, 205.

   [5654] St. Luke xxii. 17-18

   [5655] I have often expressed my conviction that in the ancient
   Services there was considerable elasticity and liberty left to the
   individual. At present a cup is filled for each individual, but Christ
   seems to have passed the one cup round among the Disciples. Whether
   such was sometimes done, or the alteration was designedly, and as we
   readily see, significantly, made by Christ, cannot now be determined.

   [5656] Babha B. 97 b, lines 11 and 12 from top.

   [5657] St. John xiii.

   [5658] Pes. x. 4.

   [5659] St. John xiii. 12-16.

   [5660] St. John xiii.

   [5661] Godet, who regards ver. 1 as a general, and ver. 2 as a special,
   introduction to the foot-washing, calls attention to the circumstance
   that such introductions not unfrequently occur in the Fourth Gospel.

   [5662] ver. 2.

   [5663] The contrast is the more marked as the same verb (bllein) is
   used both of Satan casting' it into the heart of Judas, and of Christ
   throwing into the basin the water for the footwashing.

   [5664] St. John xiii.1

   [5665] St. John xi.

   [5666] Bengel: magna vis.

   [5667] St. Chrysostom and others unduly urge the words (ver. 6), He
   cometh to Peter.' He came to him, not after the others, but from the
   place where the basin and water for the purification had stood.

   [5668] St. Matt. xv. 22.

   [5669] So the expression in St. John xiii. 11, more accurately
   rendered.

   [5670] St. John xiii. 12-17.

   [5671] podeigma. The distinctive meaning of the word is best gathered
   from the other passages in the N.T. in which it occurs, viz. Heb. iv.
   11; viii. 5; ix. 23; St. James v. 10; 2 Pet. ii. 6. For the literal
   outward imitation of this deed of Christ in the ceremony of
   footwashing, still common in the Roman Catholic Church, see Bingham,
   Antiq. xii. 4, 10.

   [5672] phelete.

   [5673] The word is that employed in the Beatitudes,' makrioi.

   [5674] Shem. R. 20.

   [5675] Ezek. xvi. 9.

   [5676] Comp. Ezek. xvi. 10; Ex. xix. 4; xiii. 21.

   [5677] {hebrew} or {hebrew}.

   [5678] Comp. St. John xiii. 17.

   [5679] Kidd, 42 a.

   [5680] Ber. R. 78.

   [5681] Yalkut on Is. ix. vol. ii. p. 56 d, lines 12, 13 from top.

   [5682] St. John xiii. 18, 19.

   [5683] Ps. xli. 9.

   [5684] At the same time there is also a terrible literality about this
   prophetic reference to one who ate his bread, when we remember that
   Judas, like the rest, lived of what was supplied to Christ, and at that
   very moment sat at His Table. On Ps. xli. see the Commentaries.

   [5685] na frequenter kbatiks, i.e. de eventu usurpari dicitur, ut sit
   eo eventu, ut; eo successu, ut, ita ut' [Grimm, ad verb.] - Angl. so
   that.' And Grimm rightly points out that na is always used in that
   sense, marking the internal connection in the succession of events -
   kbatiks not teliks - where the phrase occurs that it might be
   fulfilled.' This canon is most important, and of very wide application
   wherever the na is connected with the Divine Agency, in which, from our
   human view-point, we have to distinguish between the decree and the
   counsel of God.

   [5686] Phil. ii. 5-7.

   [5687] St. John xiii. 20.

   [5688] St. Matt. xxvi. 21.

   [5689] St. Mark xiv. 18.

   [5690] Pes. x. 4.

   [5691] Pes. 115 b.

   [5692] Ps. cxiii to cxviii.

   [5693] St. John xiii. 21.

   [5694] St. John xiii. 22.

   [5695] The reading adopted in the R.V. of St. John xiii. 24 represents
   the better accredited text, though it involves some difficulties.

   [5696] On the circumstance that John does not name himself in ver. 23,
   Bengel beautifully remarks: Optabilius est, amari ab Jesu, quam nomine
   proprio celebrari.'

   [5697] The statement is in regard to Hillel, while the Temple stood.

   [5698] Mark the definite article - not a sop.'

   [5699] Jer.Chall. 57 b.

   [5700] St. John xiii. 28.

   [5701] St. Matt. xxvi. 24; St. Mark xiv. 21.

   [5702] St. John xiii. 30 should be rendered,'having taken,' not
   received.'

   [5703] To a Jew it might seem that with the sop,' containing as it did
   a piece of the Paschal Lamb, the chief part in the Paschal Supper was
   over.

   [5704] The Mishnah expressly allows the procuring even on the Sabbath
   of that which is required for the Passover, and the Law of the
   Sabbath-rest was much more strict than that of feast-days. See this in
   Appendix XVII., p. 783.

   [5705] St. John.

   [5706] The first in ver. 32 of our T.R. seems spurious, though it
   indicates the logical nexus of facts.

   [5707] Probably the word reward' is wrongly chosen, for I look on
   Christ's exaltation after the victory of His Obedience as rather the
   necessary sequence than the reward of His Work.

   [5708] St. John xiii. 31-35.

   [5709] Could there possibly be a hiatus in our present Gospel? There is
   not the least external evidence to that effect, and yet the impression
   deepens on consideration. I have ventured to throw out some hints on
   this subject in The Temple and its Services,' Appendix at close.

   [5710] The most important of these, perhaps, is the rendering of
   covenant' for testament.' In St. Matthew the word new' before
   covenant,' should be left out; this also in St. Mark, as well as the
   word eat' after take.'

   [5711] St. Matt. xxvi. 26; St. Mark xiv. 22.

   [5712] 1 Cor. x. 10.

   [5713] Though, of course, most widely differing from what is an attempt
   to trace an analogy between the Ritual of the Romish Mass and the
   Paschal Liturgy of the Jews, the article on it by the learned Professor
   Bickell, of Innsbruck, possesses a curious interest. See Zeitsch. fur
   Kathol. Theol. for 1880, pp. 90-112.

   [5714] I would here refer to the admirable critical notes on 1 Cor. x.
   and xi. by Professor Evans in The Speaker's Commentary.'

   [5715] The words area hitherto unprinted utterance on this subject by
   the late Professor J. Duncan, of Edinburgh.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XI.
THE LAST DISCOURSES OF CHRIST - THE PRAYER OF CONSECRATION. [5716]

   (St. John xiv.; xv.; xvi.; xvii.)

   THE new Institution of the Lord's Supper did not finally close what
   passed at that Paschal Table. According to the Jewish Ritual, the Cup
   is filled a fourth time, and the remaining part of the Hallel [5717]
   repeated. Then follow, besides Ps. cxxxvi., a number of prayers and
   hymns, of which the comparatively late origin is not doubtful. The same
   remark applies even more strongly to what follows after the fourth Cup.
   But, so far as we can judge, the Institution of the Holy Supper was
   followed by the Discourse recorded in St. John xiv. Then the concluding
   Psalms of the Hallel were sung, [5718] after which the Master left the
   Upper Chamber.' The Discourse of Christ recorded in St. John xvi., and
   His prayer, [5719] were certainly uttered after they had risen from the
   Supper, and before they crossed the brook Kidron. [5720] In all
   probability they were, however, spoken before the Savior left the
   house. We can scarcely imagine such a Discourse, and still less such a
   Prayer, to have been uttered while traversing the narrow streets of
   Jerusalem on the way to Kidron.

   1. In any case there cannot be doubt, that the first Discourse [5721]
   was spoken while still at the Supper-Table. It connects itself closely
   with that statement which had caused them so much sorrow and
   perplexity, that, whither He was going, they could not come. [5722] If
   so, the Discourse itself may be arranged under these four particulars:
   explanatory and corrective; [5723] explanatory and teaching; [5724]
   hortatory and promissory; [5725] promissory and consolatory. [5726]
   Thus there is constantand connected progress, the two great elements in
   the Discourse being: teaching and comfort.

   At the outset we ought, perhaps, to remember the very common Jewish
   idea, that those in glory occupied different abodes, corresponding to
   their ranks. [5727] If the words of Christ, about the place whither
   they could not follow Him, had awakened any such thoughts, the
   explanation which He now gave must effectually have dispelled them. Let
   not their hearts, then, be troubled at the prospect. As they believed
   in God, so let them also have trust in Him. [5728] It was His Father's
   House of which they were thinking, and although there were many
   mansions,' or rather stations,' in it - and the choice of this word may
   teach us something - yet they were all in that one House. Could they
   not trust Him in this? Surely, if it had been otherwise, He would have
   told them, and not left them to be bitterly disappointed in the end.
   Indeed, the object of His going was the opposite of what they feared:
   it was to prepare by His Death and Resurrection a place for them. Nor
   let them think that His going away would imply permanent separation,
   because He had said they could not follow Him thither. Rather did His
   going, not away, but to prepare a place for them, imply His Coming
   again, primarily as regarded individuals at death, and secondarily as
   regarded the Church - that He might receive them unto Himself, there to
   be with Him. Not final separation, then, but ultimate gathering to
   Himself, did His present going away mean. And whither I go, ye know the
   way.' [5729]

   Jesus had referred to His going to the Father's House, and implied that
   they knew the way which would bring them thither also. But His Words
   had only the more perplexed, at least some of them. If, when speaking
   of their not being able to go whither He went, He had not referred to a
   separation between them in that land far away, whither was He going?
   And, in their ignorance of this, how could they find their way thither?
   If any Jewish ideas of the disappearance and the final manifestation of
   the Messiah lurked beneath the question of Thomas, the answer of the
   Lord placed the matter in the clearest light. He had spoken of the
   Father's House of many stations,' but only one road led thither. They
   must all know it: it was that of personal apprehension of Christ in the
   life, the mind, and the heart. The way to the Father was Christ; the
   full manifestation of all spiritual truth, and the spring of the true
   inner life were equally in Him. Except through Him, no man could
   consciously come to the Father. Thomas had put his twofold question
   thus: What was the goal? and, what was the way to it? [5730] In His
   answer Christ significantly reversed this order, and told them first
   what was the way - Himself; and then what was the goal. If they had
   spiritually known Him as the way, they would also have known the goal,
   the Father, and now, by having the way clearly pointed out, they must
   also know the goal, God; nay, He was, so to speak, visibly before them
   - and, gazing on Him, they saw the shining track up to heaven, the
   Jacob's ladder at the top of which was the Father. [5731]

   But once more appeared in the words of Philip that carnal literalising,
   which would take the words of Christ in only an external sense. [5732]
   Sayings like these help us to perceive the absolute need of another
   Teacher, the Holy Spirit. Philip understood the words of Christ as if
   He held out the possibility of an actual sight of the Father; and this,
   as they imagined, would for ever have put an end to all their doubts
   and fears. We also, too often, would fain have such solution of our
   doubts, if not by actual vision, yet by direct communication from on
   high. In His reply Jesus once more and emphatically returned to this
   truth, that the vision, which was that of faith alone, was spiritual,
   and in no way external; and that this manifestation had been, and was
   fully, though spiritually and to faith, in Him. Or did Philip not
   believe that the Father was really manifested in Christ, because he did
   not actually behold Him? Those words which had drawn them and made them
   feel that heaven was so near, they were not His own. but the message
   which He had brought them from the Father; those works which He had
   done, they were the manifestation of the Father's dwelling' in Him. Let
   them then believe this vital union between the Father and Him - and, if
   their faith could not absolutely rise to that height, let it at least
   rest on the lower level of the evidence of His works. And so would He
   still lead us upwards, from the experience of what He does to the
   knowledge of what He is. Yea, and if they were ever tempted to doubt
   His works, faith might have evidence of them in personal experience.
   Primarily, no doubt, the words [5733] about the greater works which
   they who believed in Him would do, because He went to the Father, refer
   to the Apostolic preaching and working in its greater results after the
   outpouring of the Holy Spirit. To this also must primarily refer the
   promise of unlimited answer to prayer in His Name. [5734] But in a
   secondary, yet most true and blessed, sense, both these promises have,
   ever since the Ascension of Christ, also applied both to the Church and
   to all individual Christians.

   A twofold promise, so wide as this, required, it must be felt, not
   indeed limitation, but qualification - let us say, definition - so far
   as concerns the indication of its necessary conditions. Unlimited power
   of working by faith and of praying in faith is qualified by obedience
   to His Commandments, such as is the outcome of personal love to Him.
   [5735] And for such faith, which compasseth all things in the obedience
   of love to Christ, and can obtain all by the prayer of faith in His
   Name, there will be a need of Divine Presence ever with them. [5736]
   While He had been with them, they had had one Paraclete, [5737] or
   Advocate,' Who had pleaded with them the cause of God, explained and
   advocated the truth, and guarded and guided them. Now that His outward
   Presence was to be withdrawn from earth, and He was to be their
   Paraclete or Advocate in Heaven with the Father, [5738] He would, as
   His first act of advocacy, pray the Father, Who would send them another
   Paraclete, or Advocate, who would continue with them for ever. To the
   guidance and pleadings of that Advocate they could implicitly trust
   themselves, for He was the Spirit of Truth.' The world, indeed, would
   not listen to His pleadings, nor accept Him as their Guide, for the
   only evidence by which they judged was that of outward sight and
   material results. But theirs would be other Empirics: and experience
   not outward, but inward and spiritual. They would know the reality of
   His Existence and the truth of His pleadings by the continual Presence
   with them as a body of this Paraclete, and by His dwelling in them
   individually.

   Here (as Bengel justly remarks) begins the essential difference between
   believers and the world. The Son was sent into the world; not so the
   Holy Spirit. Again, the world receives not the Holy Spirit, because it
   knows Him not; the disciples know Him, because they possess Him. Hence
   to have known' and to have' are so conjoined, that not to have known is
   the cause of not having, and to have is the cause of knowing. [5739] In
   view of this promised Advent of the other Advocate, Christ could tell
   the disciples that He would not leave them orphans' in this world. Nay,
   in this Advocate Christ Himself came to them. True, the world, which
   only saw and knew what fell within the range of its sensuous and
   outward vision (ver. 17), would not behold Him, but they would behold
   Him, because He lived, and they also would live - and hence there was
   fellowship of spiritual life between them. [5740] On that day of the
   Advent of His Holy Spirit would they have full knowledge, because
   experience, of the Christ's Return to the Father, and of their own
   being in Christ, and of His being in them. And, as regarded this
   threefold relationship, this must be ever kept in view: to be in Christ
   meant to love Him, and this was: to have and to keep His commandments;
   Christ's being in the Father implied, that they who were in Christ or
   loved Him would be loved also of His Father; and, lastly, Christ's
   being in them implied, that He would love them and manifest Himself to
   them. [5741]

   One outstanding novel fact here arrested the attention of the
   disciples. It was contrary to all their Jewish ideas about the future
   manifestation of the Messiah, and it led to the question of one of
   their number, Judas - not Iscariot: Lord, what has happened, that to us
   Thou wilt manifest Thyself, and not to the world?' Again they thought
   of an outward, while He spoke of a spiritual and inward manifestation.
   It was of this coming of the Son and the Father for the purpose of
   making station' with them [5742] that He spoke, of which the condition
   was love to Christ, manifested in the keeping of His Word, and which
   secured the love of the Father also. On the other hand, not to keep His
   Word was not to love Him, with all that it involved, not only as
   regarded the Son, but also the Father, since the Word which they heard
   was the Father's. [5743]

   Thus far then for this inward manifestation, springing from
   life-fellowship with Christ, rich in the unbounded spiritual power of
   faith, and fragrant with the obedience of love. All this He could say
   to them now in the Father's Name - as the first Representative,
   Pleader, and Advocate,' or Paraclete. But what, when He was no longer
   present with them? For that He had provided another Paraclete,'
   Advocate, or Pleader. This Paraclete, the Holy Spirit, Whom the Father
   will send in My Name, that same will teach you all things, and bring to
   your remembrance all things that I said to you.' It is quite evident,
   that the interpretation of the term Paraclete as the Comforter' will
   not meet the description here given of His twofold function as teaching
   all, and recalling all, that Christ Himself had said. Nor will the
   other interpretation of Advocate' meet the requirements, if we regard
   the Advocate as one who pleads for us. But if we regard the Paraclete
   or Advocate as the Representative of Christ, and pleading, as it were,
   for Him, the cause of Christ, all seems harmonious. Christ came in the
   Name of the Father, as the first Paraclete, as His Representative; the
   Holy Spirit comes in the Name of Christ, as the second Paraclete, the
   Representative of Christ, Who is in the Father. As such the second
   Paraclete is sent by the Father in Name of the first Paraclete, and He
   would both complete in them, and recall to them, His Cause.

   And so at the end of this Discourse the Lord returned again, and now
   with fuller meaning, to its beginning. Then He had said: Let not your
   heart be troubled; ye believe in God, believe also in Me.' Now, after
   the fuller communication of His purpose, and of their relation to Him,
   He could convey to them the assurance of peace, even His Own peace, as
   His gift in the present, and His legacy for the future. [5744] In their
   hearing, the fact of His going away, which had filled them with such
   sorrow and fear, had now been conjoined with that of His Coming [5745]
   to them. Yes, as He had explained it, His departure to the Father was
   the necessary antecedent and condition of His Coming to them in the
   permanent Presence of the other Paraclete, the Holy Ghost. That
   Paraclete, however, would, in the economy of grace, be sent by the
   Father alone. In the dispensation of grace, the final source from
   whence all cometh, Who sendeth both the Son and the Holy Ghost, is God
   the Father. The Son is sent by the Father, and the Holy Ghost also,
   though proceeding from the Father and the Son, is sent by the Father in
   Christ's Name. In the economy of grace, then, the Father is greater
   than the Son. And the return of the Son to the Father marks alike the
   completion of Christ's work, and its perfection, in the Mission of the
   Holy Ghost, with all that His Advent implies. Therefore, if, discarding
   thoughts of themselves, they had only given room to feelings of true
   love to Him, instead of mourning they would have rejoiced because He
   went to the Father, with all that this implied, not only of rest and
   triumph to Him, but of the perfecting of His Work - since this was the
   condition of that Mission of the Holy Ghost by the Father, Who sent
   both the Son and the Holy Spirit. And in this sense also should they
   have rejoiced, because, through the presence of the Holy Ghost in them,
   as sent by the Father in His greater' work, they would, instead of the
   present selfish enjoyment of Christ's Personal Presence, have the more
   power of showing their love to Him in apprehending His Truth, obeying
   His Commandments, doing His Works, and participating in His Life.
   [5746] Not that Christ expected them to understand the full meaning of
   all these words. But afterwards, when it had all come to pass, they
   would believe. [5747]

   With the meaning and the issue of the great contest on which He was
   about to enter thus clearly before Him, did He now go forth to meet the
   last assault of the Prince of this World.' [5748] But why that fierce
   struggle, since in Christ he hath nothing?' To exhibit to the world'
   the perfect love which He had to the Father; how even to the utmost of
   self-exinanition, obedience, submission, and suffering He was doing as
   the Father had given Him commandment, when He sent Him for the
   redemption of the world. In the execution of this Mission He would
   endure the last sifting assault and contest on the part of the Enemy,
   and, enduring, conquer for us. And so might the world be won from its
   Prince by the full manifestation of Christ, in His infinite obedience
   and righteousness, doing the Will of the Father and the Work which He
   had given Him, and in His infinite love doing the work of our
   salvation. [5749]

   2. The work of our salvation! To this aspect of the subject Christ now
   addressed Himself, as He rose from the Supper-Table. If in the
   Discourse recorded in the fourteenth chapter of St. John's Gospel the
   Godward aspect of Christ's impending departure was explained, in that
   of the fifteenth chapter the new relation is set forth which was to
   subsist between Him and His Church. And this - although epigrammatic
   sayings are so often fallacious - may be summarised in these three
   words: Union, Communion, Disunion. The Union between Christ and His
   Church is corporate, vital, and effective, alike as regards results and
   blessings. [5750] This Union issues in Communion - of Christ with His
   disciples, of His disciples with Him, and of His disciples among
   themselves. The principle of all these is love: the love of Christ to
   the disciples, the love of the disciples to Christ, and the love in
   Christ of the disciples to one another. [5751] Lastly, this Union and
   Communion has for its necessary counterpart Disunion, separation from
   the world. The world repudiates them for their union with Christ and
   their communion. But, for all that, there is something that must keep
   them from going out of the world. They have a Mission in it, initiated
   by, and carried on in the power of, the Holy Ghost - that of uplifting
   the testimony of Christ. [5752]

   As regards the relation of the Church to the Christ Who is about to
   depart to the Father, and to come to them in the Holy Ghost as His
   Representative, it is to be one of Union, corporate, vital, and
   effective. In the nature of it, such a truth could only be set forth by
   illustration. When Christ said: I am the Vine, the true one, and My
   Father is the Husbandman;' or again, Ye are the branches' - bearing in
   mind that, as He spake it in Aramaic, the copulas am,' is,' and are,'
   would be omitted - He did not mean that He signified the Vine or was
   its sign, nor the Father that of the Husbandman, nor yet the disciples
   that of the branches. What He meant was, that He, the Father, and the
   disciples, stood in exactly the same relationship as the Vine, the
   Husbandman, and the branches. That relationship was of corporate union
   of the branches with the Vine for the production of fruit to the
   Husbandman, Who for that purpose pruned the branches. Nor can we forget
   in this connection, that, in the old Testament, and partially in Jewish
   thought, [5753] the Vine was the symbol of Israel, not in their
   national but in their Church-capacity. Christ, with His disciples as
   the branches, is the Vine, the true One' - the reality of all types,
   the fulfilment of all promises. They are many branches, yet a grand
   unity in that Vine; there is one Church of which He is the Head, the
   Root, the Sustenance, the Life. And in that Vine will the object of its
   planting of old be realised: to bring forth fruit unto God.

   Yet, though it be one Vine, the Church must bear fruit not only in her
   corporate capacity, but individually in each of the branches. It seems
   remarkable that we read of branches in Him that bear not fruit. This
   must apparently refer to those who have by Baptism been inserted into
   the Vine, but remain fruitless, since a merely outward profession of
   Christ could scarcely be described as a branch in' Him. On the other
   hand, every fruit-bearing branch the Husbandman cleanseth' [5754] - not
   necessarily nor exclusively by pruning, but in whatever manner may be
   requisite - so that it may produce the largest possible amount of
   fruit. As for them, the process of cleansing had already' been
   accomplished through, or because of [the meaning is much the same], the
   Word which He had spoken unto them. If that condition of fruit-bearing
   now existed in them in consequence of the impression of His Word, it
   followed as a cognate condition that they must abide in Him, and He
   would abide in them. Nay, this was a vital condition of fruit-bearing,
   arising from the fundamental fact that He was the Vine and they the
   branches. The proper, normal condition of every branch in that Vine was
   to bear much fruit, of course, in proportion to its size and vigour.
   But, both figuratively and really, the condition of this was to abide
   in Him, since apart' from Him they could do nothing. It was not like a
   force once set in motion that would afterwards continue of itself. It
   was a life, and the condition of its permanence was continued union
   with Christ, from Whom alone it could spring.

   And now as regarded the two alternatives: he that abode not in Him was
   the branch cast outside' and withering, which, when ready for it, men
   would cast into the fire - with all of symbolic meaning as regards the
   gatheres and the burning that the illustration implies. On the other
   hand, if the corporate and vital union was effective, if they abode in
   Him, and in consequence, His Words abode in them, then: Whatsoever ye
   will ye shall ask, and it shall be done to you.' It is very noteworthy
   that the unlimitedness of prayer is limited, or, rather, conditioned,
   by our abiding in Christ and His Words in us, [5755] just as in St.
   John xiv. 12-14 it is conditioned by fellowship with Him, and in St.
   John xv. 16 by permanent fruitfulness. [5756] For, it were the most
   dangerous fanaticism, and entirely opposed to the teaching of Christ,
   to imagine that the promise of Christ implies such absolute power - as
   if prayer were magic - that a person might ask for anything, no matter
   what it was, in the assurance of obtaining his request. [5757] In all
   moral relations, duties and privileges are correlative ideas, and in
   our relation to Christ conscious immanence in Him and of His Word in
   us, union and communion with Him, and the obedience of love, are the
   indispensable conditions of our privileges. The beliver may, indeed,
   ask for anything, because he may always and absolutely go to God; but
   the certainty of special answers to prayer is proportionate to the
   degree of union and communion with Christ. And such unlimited liberty
   of prayer is connected with our bearing much fruit, because thereby the
   Father is glorified and our discipleship evidenced. [5758] [5759]

   This union, being inward and moral, necesarily unfolds into communion,
   of which the principle is love. Like as the Father loved Me, even so
   loved I you. Abide in My love. If ye keep My commandments, ye shall
   abide in the love that is Mine (n t gp t m).' We mark the continuity in
   the scale of love: the Father towards the Son, and the Son towards us;
   and its kindredness of forthgoing. And now all that the disciples had
   to do was to abide in it. This is connected, not with sentiment nor
   even with faith, but with obedience. [5760] Fresh supplies are drawn by
   faith, but continuance in the love of Christ is the manifestation and
   the result of obedience. It was so even with the Master Himself in His
   relation to the Father. And the Lord immediately explained [5761] what
   His object was in saying this. In this, also, were they to have
   communion with Him: communion in that joy which was His in consequence
   of His perfect obedience. These things have I spoken to you, in order
   that the joy that is Mine ( char m) may be [5762] in you, and your joy
   may be fulfilled [completed].'

   But what of those commandments to which such importance attached? Clean
   as they now were through the Words which He had spoken, one great
   commandment stood forth as specially His Own, consecrated by His
   Example and to be measured by His observance of it. From whatever point
   we view it, whether as specially demanded by the pressing necessities
   of the Church; or as, from its contrast to what Heathenism exhibited,
   affording such striking evidence of the power of Christianity; [5763]
   or, on the other hand, as so congruous to all the fundamental thoughts
   of the Kingdom: the love of the Father in sending His Son for man, the
   work of the Son in seeking and saving the lost at the price of His Own
   Life, and the new bond which in Christ bound them all in the fellowship
   of a common calling, common mission, and common interests and hopes -
   love of the brethren was the one outstanding Farewell-Command of
   Christ. [5764] And to keep His commandments was to be His friend. And
   they were His friends. No longer' did He call them servants, for the
   servant knew not what his lord did. He had now given them a new name,
   and with good reason: You have I called friends, because all things
   which I heard of My Father I made known to you.' And yet deeper did He
   descend, in pointing them to the example and measure of His love as the
   standard of theirs towards one another. And with this teaching He
   combined what He had said before, of bearing fruit and of the privilege
   of fellowship with Himself. They were His friends; He had proved it by
   treating them as such in now opening up before them the whole counsel
   of God. And that friendship: Not you did choose Me, but I did choose
   you' - the object of His choosing' [that to which they were appointed']
   being, that, as they went forth into the world, they should bear fruit,
   that their fruit should be permanent, and that they should possess the
   full privilege of that unlimited power to pray of which He had
   previously spoken. [5765] All these things were bound up with obedience
   to His commands, of which the outstanding one was to love one another.'
   [5766]

   But this very choice on His part, and their union of love in Him and to
   one another, also implied not only separation from, but repudiation by,
   the world. [5767] For this they must be prepared. It had come to Him,
   and it would be evidence of their choice to discipleship. The hatred of
   the world showed the essential difference and antagonism between the
   life-principle of the world and theirs. For evil or for good, they must
   expect the same treatment as their Master. Nay, was it not their
   privilege to realise, that all this came upon them for His sake? and
   should they not also remember, that the ultimate ground of the world's
   hatred was ignorance of Him Who had sent Christ? [5768] And yet, though
   this should banish all thoughts of personal resentment, their guilt who
   rejected Him was truly terrible. Speaking to, and in, Israel, there was
   no excuse for their sin - the most awful that could be conceived;
   since, most truly: He that hateth Me, hateth My Father also.' For,
   Christ was the Sent of God, and God manifest. It was a terrible charge
   this to bring against God's ancient people Israel. And yet there was,
   besides the evidence of His Words, that of His Works. [5769] If they
   could not apprehend the former, yet, in regard to the latter, they
   could see by comparison with the works of other men that they were
   unique. [5770] They saw it, but only hated Him and His Father,
   ascribing it all to the power and agency of Beelzebul. And so the
   ancient prophecy had now been fulfilled: They hated Me gratuitously.'
   [5771] But all was not yet at an end: neither His Work through the
   other Advocate, nor yet theirs in the world. When the Advocate is come,
   Whom I will send to you from the Father - the Spirit of the Truth - Who
   proceedeth from the Father [goeth forth on His Mission as sent by the
   Father], [5772] this Same will bear witness about Me. And ye also bear
   witness, [5773] because ye are with Me from the beginning.'

   3. The last of the parting Discourses of Christ, in the sixteenth
   chapter of St. John, was, indeed, interrupted by questions from the
   disciples. But these, being germane to the subject, carry it only
   forward. In general, the subjects treated in it are: the new relations
   arising from the departure of Christ and the coming of the other
   Advocate. Thus the last point needed would be supplied - chap. xiv.
   giving the comfort and teaching in view of His departure; chap. xv.
   describing the personal relations of the disciples towards Christ, one
   another, and the world; and chap. xvi. fixing the new relations to be
   established.

   The chapter appropriately opens by reflecting on the predicted enmity
   of the world. [5774] Christ had so clearly foretold it, lest this
   should prove a stumbling-block to them. Best, to know distinctly that
   they would not only be put out of the Synagogue, but that everyone who
   killed them would deem it to offer a religious service to God.' So, no
   doubt, Saul of Tarsus once felt, and so did many others who, alas!
   never became Christians. Indeed, according to Jewish Law, a zealot'
   might have slain without formal trial those caught in flagrant
   rebellion against God - or in what might be regarded as such, and the
   Synagogue would have deemed the deed as meritorious as that of
   Phinehas. [5775] It was a sorrow, and yet also a comfort, to know that
   this spirit of enmity arose from ignorance of the Father and Christ.
   Although they had in a general way been prepared for it before, yet He
   had not told it all so definitely and connectedly from the beginning,
   because He was still there. [5776] But now that He was going away, it
   was absolutely necessary to do so. For even the mention of it had
   thrown them into such confusion of personal sorrow, that the main
   point, whither Christ was going, had not even emerged into their view.
   [5777] [5778] Personal feelings had quite engrossed them, to the
   forgetfulness of their own higher interests. He was going to the
   Father, and this was the condition, as well as the antecedent of His
   sending the Paraclete.

   But the Advent of the Advocate' would mark a new era, as regarded the
   Church [5779] and the world. It was their Mission to go forth into the
   world and to preach Christ. That other Advocate, as the Representative
   of Christ, would go into the world and convict on the three cardinal
   points on which their preaching turned. These three points on which all
   Missioning proceeds, are - Sin, Righteousness, and Judgment. And on
   these would the New Advocate convict the world. Bearing in mind that
   the term convict' is uniformly used in the Gospels [5780] for clearly
   establishing or carrying home guilt, [5781] we have here three separate
   facts presented to us. As the Representative of Christ, the Holy Ghost
   will carry home to the world, establish the fact of its guilt in regard
   to sin - on the ground that the world believes not in Christ. Again, as
   the Representative of Christ, He will carry home to the world the fact
   of its guilt in regard to righteousness - on the ground that Christ has
   ascended to the Father, and hence is removed from the sight of man.
   Lastly, as the Representative of Christ, He will establish the fact of
   the world's guilt, because of this: that its Prince, Satan, has already
   been judged by Christ - a judgment established in His sitting at the
   Right Hand of God, and which will be vindicated at His Second Coming.
   Taking, then, the three great facts in the History of the Christ: His
   First Coming to salvation, His Resurrection and Ascension, and His
   Sitting at the Right Hand of God, of which His Second Coming to
   Judgment is the final issue, this Advocate of Christ will in each case
   convict the world of guilt; in regard to the first - concerning sin,
   because it believes not on Him Whom God has sent; in regard to the
   second - concerning righteousness, because Christ is at the Father's
   Right Hand; and, in regard to the third - concerning judgment, because
   that Prince whom the world still owns has already been judged by
   Christ's Session at the Right Hand of God, and by His Reign, which is
   to be completed in His Second Coming to Earth.

   Such was the cause of Christ which the Holy Spirit as the Advocate
   would plead to the world, working conviction as in a hostile guilty
   party. Quite other was that cause of Christ which, as His Advocate, He
   would plead with the disciples, and quite other in their case the
   effect of His advocacy. We have, even on the present occasion, marked
   how often the Lord was hindered, as well as grieved, by the
   misunderstanding and unbelief of man. Now it was the self-imposed law
   of His Mission, the outcome of His Victory in the Temptation in the
   Wilderness, that He would not achieve His Mission in the exercise of
   Divine Power, but by treading the ordinary path of humanity. This was
   the limitation which He set to Himself - one aspect of His
   Self-exinanition. But from this His constant sorrow must also have
   flowed, in view of the unbelief of even those nearest to Him. It was,
   therefore, not only expedient, but even necessary for them, since at
   present they could not bear more, that Christ's Presence should be
   withdrawn, and His Representative take His place, and open up His Cause
   to them. And this was to be His special work to the Church. As
   Advocate, not speaking from [5782] Himself, but speaking whatsoever He
   shall hear - as it were, according to His heavenly brief' - He would
   guide them into all truth. And here His first declaration' would be of
   the things that are coming.' A whole new order of things was before the
   Apostles - the abolition of the Jewish, the establishment of the
   Christian Dispensation, and the relation of the New to the Old,
   together with many kindred questions. As Christ's Representative, and
   speaking not from Himself, the Holy Spirit would be with them, not
   suffer them to go astray into error or wrong, but be their wayleader'
   into all truth. Further, as the Son glorified the Father, so would the
   Spirit glorify the Son, and in analogous manner - because He shall take
   of His and declare' it unto them. This would be the second line, as it
   were, in the declarations' of the Advocate, Representative of Christ.
   And this work of the Holy Spirit, sent by the Father, in His
   declaration about Christ, was explained by the circumstance of the
   union and communication between the Father and Christ. [5783] And so -
   to sum up, in one brief Farewell, all that He had said to them - there
   would be a little while' in which they would not behold' Him (okti
   theoret me), and again a little while and they would see' Him (psesth
   me), though in quite different manner, as even the wording shows.
   [5784] [5785]

   If we had entertained any doubt of the truth of the Lord's previous
   words, that in their absorbedness in the present the disciples had not
   thought of the whither' to which Christ was going, and that it was
   needful for them that He should depart and the other Advocate come,
   [5786] this conviction would be forced upon us by their perplexed
   questioning among themselves as to the meaning of the twofold little
   while,' and of all that He had said about, and connected with, His
   going to the Father. They would fain have asked, yet dared not. But He
   knew their thoughts, and answered them. That first little while'
   comprised those terrible days of His Death and Entombment, when they
   would weep and lament, but the world rejoice. Yet their brief sorrow
   would be turned into joy. It was like the short sorrow of childbearing
   - afterwards no more remembered in the joy that a human being had been
   born into the world. Thus would it be when their present sorrow would
   be changed into the Resurrection-joy - a joy which no man could ever
   afterwards take from them. On that day of joy would He have them dwell
   in thought during their present night of sorrow. That would be, indeed,
   a day of brightness, in which there would be no need of their making
   further inquiry of Him (m ok rotsete). [5787] All would then be clear
   in the new light of the Resurrection. A day this, when the promise
   would become true, and whatsoever they asked the Father (atsete), He
   would give it them in Christ's Name. [5788] Hitherto they had not yet
   asked in His Name; let them ask: they would receive, and so their joy
   be completed. Ah! that day of brightness. Hitherto He had only been
   able to speak to them, as it were, in parables and allegory, but then
   would He declare' to them in all plainness about the Father. And, as He
   would be able to speak to them directly and plainly about the Father,
   so would they then be able to speak directly to the Father - as the
   Epistle to the Hebrews expresses it, come with plainness' [5789] or
   directness' to the throne of grace. They would ask directly in the Name
   of Christ; and no longer would it be needful, as at present, first to
   come to Him that He may inquire' of the Father about' them (rotso per
   mn). For, God loved them as lovers of Christ, and as recognising that
   He had come forth from God. And so it was - He had come forth from out
   the Father [5790] when He came into the world, and, now that He was
   leaving it, He was going to the Father.

   The disciples imagined that they understood this at least. Christ had
   read their thoughts, and there was no need for anyone to put express
   questions. [5791] He knew all things, and by this they believed - it
   afforded them evidence - that He came forth from [5792] God. But how
   little did they know their own hearts! The hour had even come when they
   would be scattered, every man to his own home, and leave Him alone -
   yet, truly, He would not be alone, because the Father would be with
   Him. [5793] Yet, even so, His latest as His first thought [5794] was of
   them; and through the night of scattering and of sorrow did He bid them
   look to the morning of joy. For, the battle was not theirs, nor yet the
   victory doubtful: I [emphatically] have overcome [it is accomplished]
   the world.' [5795]

   We now enter most reverently what may be called the innermost
   Sanctuary. [5796] For the first time we are allowed to listen to what
   was really the Lord's Prayer,' [5797] and, as we hear, we humbly
   worship. That Prayer was the great preparation for His Agony, Cross,
   and Passion; and, also, the outlook on the Crown beyond. In its three
   parts [5798] it seems almost to look back on the teaching of the three
   previous chapters, [5799] and convert them into prayer. [5800] We see
   the great High-Priest first solemnly offering up Himself, and then
   consecrating and interceding for His Church and for her work.

   The first part of that Prayer [5801] is the consecration of Himself by
   the Great High-Priest. The final hour had come. In praying that the
   Father would glorify the Son, He was really not asking anything for
   Himself, but that the Son' might [5802] glorify' the Father. For, the
   glorifying of the Son - His support, and then His Resurrection, was
   really the completion of the work which the Father had given Him to do,
   as well as its evidence. It was really in accordance (even as') with
   the power or authority which the Father gave Him over all flesh,'
   [5803] when He put all things under His Feet as the Messiah - the
   object of this Messianic Rule being, that the totality' (the all, pn)
   that Thou hast given Him, He should give to them eternal life.' The
   climax in His Messianic appointment, the object of His Rule over all
   flesh, was the Father's gift to Christ of the Church as a totality and
   a unity; and in that Church Christ gives to each individually eternal
   life. What follows [5804] seems an intercalated sentence, as shown even
   by the use of the particle and,' with which the all-important
   definition of what is eternal life' is introduced, and by the last
   words in the verse. But although embodying, so to speak, as regards the
   form, the record which St. John had made of Christ's Words, we must
   remember that, as regards the substance, we have here Christ's own
   Prayer for that eternal life to each of His own people. And what
   constitutes the eternal life?' Not what we so often think, who confound
   with the thing its effects or else its results. It refers not to the
   future, but to the present. It is the realisation of what Christ had
   told them in these words: Ye believe in God, believe also in Me.' It is
   the pure sunlight on the soul, resulting in, or reflecting the
   knowledge of Jehovah; the Personal, Living, True God, and of Him Whom
   He did send, Jesus Christ. These two branches of knowledge must not so
   much be considered as co-ordinate, but rather as inseparable. Returning
   from this explanation of the eternal life' which they who are bathed in
   the Light possess even now and here, the Great High-Priest first
   offered up to the Father that part of His work which was on earth and
   which He had completed. And then, both as the consummation and the
   sequel of it, He claimed what was at the end of His Mission: His return
   to that fellowship of essential glory, which He possessed together with
   the Father before the world was. [5805]

   The gift of His consecration could not have been laid on more glorious
   Altar. Such Cross must have been followed by such Crown. [5806] And now
   again His first thought was of them for whose sake He had consecrated
   Himself. These He now solemnly presented to the Father. [5807] He
   introduced them as those (the individuals) whom the Father had
   specially given to him out of the world. As such they were really the
   Father's, and given over the Christ - and He now presented them as
   having kept the Word of the Father. Now they knew that all things
   whatsoever the Father had given the Son were of the Father. This was
   the outcome, then, of all His teaching, and the sum of all their
   learning - perfect confidence in the Person of Christ, as in His Life,
   Teaching, and Work sent not only of God, but of the Father. Neither
   less nor yet more did their knowledge' represent. All else that sprang
   out of it they had yet to learn. But it was enough, for it implied
   everything; chiefly these three things - that they received the words
   which He gave them as from the Father; that they knew truly that Christ
   had come out from the Father; and that they believed that the Father
   had sent Him. And, indeed, reception of Christ's Word, knowledge of His
   Essential Nature, and faith in His Mission: such seem the three
   essential characteristics of those who are Christ's.

   And now He brought them in prayer before the Father. [5808] He was
   interceding, not for the world' that was His by right of His
   Messiahship, but for them whom the Father had specially given Him. They
   were the Father's in the special sense of covenant-mercy, and all that
   in that sense was the Father's was the Son's, and all that was the
   Son's was the Father's. Therefore, although all the world was the
   Son's, He prayed not now for it; and although all in earth and heaven
   were in the Father's Hand, He sought not now His blessing on them, but
   on those whom, while He was in the world, He had shielded and guided.
   They were to be left behind in a world of sin, evil, temptation, and
   sorrow, and He was going to the Father. And this was His prayer: Holy
   Father, keep them in Thy Name which Thou hast given Me, that so (in
   order that) they may be one (a unity, n), as We are.' The peculiar
   address, Holy Father,' shows that the Saviour once more referred to the
   keeping in holiness, and what is of equal importance, that the unity'
   of the Church sought for was to be primarily one of spiritual
   character, and not a merely outward combination. Unity in holiness and
   of nature, as was that of the Father and Son, such was the great object
   sought, although such union would, if properly carried out, also issue
   in outward unity. But while moral union rather than outward unity was
   in His view, our present unhappy divisions,' arising so often from
   wilfulness and unreadiness to bear slight differences among ourselves -
   each other's burdens - are so entirely contrary not only to the
   Christian, but even to the Jewish, spirit, that we can only trace them
   to the heathen element in the Church.

   While He was with them,' He kept' them in the Father's Name. Them whom
   the Father had given Him, by the effective drawing of His grace within
   them, He guarded (phlaxa) and none from among them was lost, except the
   son of perdition - and this, according to prophecy. But ere He went to
   the Father, He prayed thus for them, that in this realised unity of
   holiness the joy that was His [5809] (tn charn tn mn), might be
   completed' in them. [5810] And there was the more need of this, since
   they were left behind with nought but His Word in a world that hated
   them, because, as Christ, so they also were not of it [from' it, k].
   Nor yet did Christ ask with a view to their being taken out of the
   world, but with this that' [in order that] the Father should keep them
   [preserve, terss] from the Evil One.' [5811] And this the more
   emphatically, because, even as He was not, so were they not out of the
   world,' which lay in the Evil One. And the preservative which He sought
   for them was not outward but inward, the same in kind as while He had
   been with them, [5812] only coming now directly from the Father. It was
   sanctification in the truth,' [5813] with this significant addition:
   The word that is Thine ( lgos ss) is truth.' [5814]

   In its last part this intercessory Prayer of the Great High-Priest bore
   on the work of the disciples and its fruits. As the Father had sent the
   Son, so did the Son send the disciples into the world, in the same
   manner, and on the same Mission. And for their sakes He now solemnly
   offered Himself, consecrated' or sanctified' Himself, that they might
   in truth' [5815] - truly - be consecrated. And in view of this their
   work, to which they were consecrated, did Christ pray not for them
   alone, but also for those who, through their word, would believe in
   Him, in order,' or that so,' all may be one' - form a unity. Christ, as
   sent by the Father, gathered out the original unity;' they, as sent by
   Him, and consecrated by His consecration, were to gather others, but
   all were to form one great unity, through the common spiritual
   communication. As Thou in Me, and I also in Thee, so that [in order
   that] they also may be in Us, so that [in order that] the world may
   believe that Thou didst send Me.' And the glory that Thou hast given
   Me' - referring to His Mission in the world, and His setting apart and
   authorisation for it - I have given to them, so that [in order that]
   [in this respect also] they may be one, even as We are One [a unity].
   [5816] I in them, and Thou in Me, so that they may be perfected into
   One' - the ideal unity and real character of the Church, this - so that
   the world may know that Thou didst send Me, and lovedst them as Thou
   lovedst Me.'

   After this unspeakably sublime consecration of His Church, and
   communication to her of His glory as well as of His Work, we cannot
   marvel at what follows and concludes the Lord's Prayer.' [5817] We
   remember the unity of the Church - a unity in Him, and as that between
   the Father and the Son - as we listen to this: That which Thou hast
   given Me, I will that, where I am, they also may be with Me - so that
   they may gaze [behold] on the glory that is Mine, which Thou hast given
   Me [be sharers in the Messianic glory]: because Thou lovedst Me before
   the foundation of the world.'

   And we all would fain place ourselves in the shadow of this final
   consecration of Himself and of His Church by the Great High-Priest,
   which is alike final appeal, claim, and prayer: O Righteous Father, the
   world knew Thee not, but I know Thee, and these know that Thou sentest
   Me. And I made known unto them Thy Name, and will make it known, so
   that [in order that] the love wherewith Thou lovedst Me may be in them,
   and I in them.' This is the charter of the Church: her possession and
   her joy; her faith, her hope also, and love; and in this she standeth,
   prayeth, and worketh.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [5716] As this chapter is really in the nature of a commentation on St.
   John xiv., xv., xvi., xvii., the reader is requested to peruse it with
   the Bible-text beside him. Without this it could scarcely be
   intelligently followed.

   [5717] Ps. cxv.- cxviii.

   [5718] St. Matt. xxvi. 30; St. Mark xiv. 26.

   [5719] St. John xvii.

   [5720] St. John xviii. 1.

   [5721] Recorded in St. John xiv.

   [5722] St. John xiii. 33.

   [5723] vv. 1-4.

   [5724] vv. 5-14.

   [5725] vv. 15-24.

   [5726] vv. 24-31.

   [5727] Babha Mets. 83 b, line 13 from top, and other passages.

   [5728] I prefer retaining the rendering of the A.V., as more congruous
   to the whole context.

   [5729] St. John xiv. 1-4.

   [5730] ver. 5.

   [5731] St. John xiv. 7.

   [5732] ver. 8.

   [5733] ver 12.

   [5734] vv. 13, 14.

   [5735] St. John xiv. 15.

   [5736] ver. 16.

   [5737] Without entering on the discussion of what has engaged so much
   attention, I must content myself here with indicating the result at
   which I have arrived. This is simply to abide by the real and natural
   meaning of the word, alike in the Greek and in Rabbinic usage. This is:
   not Comforter but Advocate, or, it may be, according to circumstances,
   Defender, Representative, Counsellor, and Pleader.

   [5738] 1 John ii 1.

   [5739] ver. 17.

   [5740] Ver. 19 should, I think, be rendered: But you behold Me, because
   [for] I live, and ye shall live.'

   [5741] St. John xiv. 20, 21.

   [5742] ka monn par' at poiesmetha. Of course only a station,' as the
   reference is only to the state of believers while on earth.

   [5743] vv. 22-24.

   [5744] St. John xiv. 27.

   [5745] The word again' before come unto you' is spurious, as also are
   the words I said' before I go to the Father.'

   [5746] The great difficulty in understanding the last part of ver. 28
   lies not in any one of the clauses nor in the combination of two, but
   in that of three of them. We could understand that if they loved Him,
   they would rejoice that He went to the Father, as marking the
   completion of His work; and again, that they should rejoice in His
   going to the Father, Who was greater, and would send the Holy Ghost, as
   implying benefit to themselves. But the difficulty of combining all
   these, so that love to Christ should induce a wish that He should go to
   the Father, because He was greater, seems one, of which I can only see
   the natural solution in the interpretation which I have ventured to
   suggest.

   [5747] ver. 29.

   [5748] St. John xiv. 30.

   [5749] ver. 31.

   [5750] xv. 1-8.

   [5751] vv. 9-17.

   [5752] vv. 18-27.

   [5753] There the two could with difficulty be separated. Hence the vine
   the symbol of Israel, the sages being the ripe grapes, Chull. 92 a.

   [5754] arei - katharei: Suavis rhythmus (Bengel).

   [5755] Canon Westcott beautifully observes: Their prayer is only some
   fragment of His teaching transformed into a supplication, and so it
   will necessarily be heard.'

   [5756] Every unprejudiced reader will feel that St. Matt. xviii. 19,
   20, so far as it does not belong to an entirely different sphere, is
   subject to similar conditions.

   [5757] Some, to me at least, horrible instances of this supposed
   absolute licence of prayer have appeared in a certain class of American
   religious literature which of late has found too wide circulation among
   us.

   [5758] St. John xv. 7, 8.

   [5759] Preces ipsæ sunt fructus, et fructum augent (Bengel).

   [5760] We would fain here correct another modern religious
   extravagance.

   [5761] St. John xv. 11.

   [5762] So according to the better reading.

   [5763] The heathen are wont to exclaim with wonder, See how these
   Christians love one another!' (Tertullian, apud Westcott.)

   [5764] vv. 12-14

   [5765] St. John xv. 16.

   [5766] ver. 17.

   [5767] ver. 18.

   [5768] vv. 19-21.

   [5769] vv. 22-24.

   [5770] Canon Westcott writes: The works are characterised (which none
   other did); the words are undefined (come and spoken). The works of
   Christ might be compared with other works: His words had an absolute
   power.'

   [5771] Ps. xxxv. 19; 1xix. 4.

   [5772] On this meaning of the words see the Note of Canon Westcott.

   [5773] For the fulfilment of this predicted twofold testimony, see Acts
   v. 32.

   [5774] St. John xvi.

   [5775] Sanh. 81 b; Bemid. R. 21.

   [5776] St. John xvi. 1-4.

   [5777] ver. 5.

   [5778] The question of Thomas (St. John xiv. 5) bore as to the way,
   rather than the goal; that of Peter (xiii. 36) seemed founded either on
   the Jewish idea that the Messiah was to disappear, or else referred to
   Christ's going among enemies and into danger, whither Peter thought he
   would follow Him. But none of the questions contemplated the Messianic
   Return of the Son to the Father with a view to the Mission of the Holy
   Ghost.

   [5779] St. John xvi. 7.

   [5780] It occurs besides this place in St. Matt. xviii. 15; St. Luke
   iii. 19; St. John iii. 20; viii. (9) 46.

   [5781] Closely similar to the above is the use of the verb lncho in St.
   James ii. 9, and in Rev. iii. 19. This may be called the Hebraic usus
   of the word. In the Epistles of St. Paul it is more general; in that to
   the Hebrews (xii. 5) it seems to stand for punishing.

   [5782] This meaning of the word is not only most important but well
   marked. Canon Westcott calls attention to its use also in the following
   passages: v. 19; vii. 18; xi. 51; xv. 4.

   [5783] St. John xvi. 8-15.

   [5784] ver. 16.

   [5785] The words, because I go to the Father,' are spurious in ver. 16.

   [5786] vv. 5-7.

   [5787] St. John xvi. 23 comp. ver 19.

   [5788] According to the better reading of ver. 23: He will give it you
   in My Name.'

   [5789] The same word (paesa) is used of Christ's plainly' declaring the
   Father (ver. 25), and of our liberty in prayer in Heb. iv. 16; comp.
   also x. 19. For the Johannine use of the word, comp. St. John vii. 4,
   13, 26; x. 24; xi. 14, 54; xvi. 25, 29; xviii. 20; 1 John ii. 28; iii.
   21; iv. 17; v. 14.

   [5790] According to the better reading: k to patrs. Surely, if words
   have any meaning, these teach the unity of Essence of the Son and the
   Father.

   [5791] St. John xvi. 30.

   [5792] Very significantly, however, they use neither par, nor k, but p.

   [5793] St. John xvi. 32.

   [5794] xiv.1.

   [5795] xvi. 33.

   [5796] St. John xvii.

   [5797] That in St. Matt. xi. 25-27 is a brief thanksgiving.

   [5798] vv. 1-5; 6-19; 20-26.

   [5799] Comp. each chapter with the corresponding section of verses in
   ch. xvii.

   [5800] I cannot agree with Canon Westcott that these last Discourses
   and this Prayer were spoken in the Temple. It is, indeed, true, that on
   that night the Temple was thrown open at midnight, and speedily
   thronged. But if our Lord had come before that time, He would have
   found its gates closed; if after that time, He could not have found a
   place of retirement and quiet, where it is conceivable that could have
   been said and prayed which is recorded in St. John xiv., xv., xvi.,
   xvii.

   [5801] vv. 1-5.

   [5802] The word also' should be struck out.

   [5803] We mark this Hebraism in the Fourth Gospel.

   [5804] in St. John xvii. 3.

   [5805] vv. 4, 5.

   [5806] Phil. ii. 8, 11.

   [5807] St. John xvii. 6-10.

   [5808] St. John xvii. 9-12.

   [5809] Comp. here St. John xv.11.

   [5810] ver. 13.

   [5811] This meaning is ruled by a reference to 1 John v. 18, 19, and,
   if so, it seems in turn to rule the meaning of the petition: Deliver us
   from the Evil One.'

   [5812] St. John xvii. 12.

   [5813] Not, by Thy truth.'

   [5814] vv. 12-17.

   [5815] Not, as in the A.V. (ver. 19), through the truth' (n lethea).

   [5816] It need scarcely be said that by the term unity' we refer not to
   unity of Person, but of Nature, Character, and Work.

   [5817] vv. 24-26.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XII.
GETHSEMANE

   (St. Matt. xxvi. 30-56; St. Mark xiv. 26-52; St. Luke xxii. 31-53; St.
   John xviii. 1-11.)

   We turn once more to follow the steps of Christ, now among the last He
   trod upon earth. The hymn,' with which the Paschal Supper ended, had
   been sung. Probably we are to understand this of the second portion of
   the Hallel, [5818] sung some time after the third Cup, or else of Psalm
   cxxxvi., which, in the present Ritual, stands near the end of the
   service. The last Discourses had been spoken, the last Prayer, that of
   Consecration, had been offered, and Jesus prepared to go forth out of
   the City, to the Mount of Olives. The streets could scarcely be said to
   be deserted, for, from many a house shone the festive lamp, and many a
   company may still have been gathered; and everywhere was the bustle of
   preparation for going up to the Temple, the gates of which were thrown
   open at midnight.

   Passing out by the gate north of the Temple, we descend into a lonely
   part of the valley of black Kidron, at that season swelled into a
   winter torrent. Crossing it, we turn somewhat to the left, where the
   road leads towards Olivet. Not many steps farther (beyond, and on the
   other side of the present Church of the Sepulchre of the Virgin) we
   turn aside from the road to the right, and reach what tradition has
   since earliest times - and probably correctly - pointed out as
   Gethsemane,' the Oil-press.' It was a small property enclosed (choron),
   a garden' in the Eastern sense, where probably, amidst a variety of
   fruit trees and flowering shrubs, was a lowly, quiet summer-retreat,
   connected with, or near by, the Olive-press.' The present Gethsemane is
   only some seventy steps square, and though its old gnarled olives
   cannot be those (if such there were) of the time of Jesus, since all
   trees in that valley - those also which stretched their shadows over
   Jesus - were hewn down in the Roman siege, they may have sprung from
   the old roots, or from the odd kernels. But we love to think of this
   Garden' as the place where Jesus often' - not merely on this occassion,
   but perhaps on previous visits to Jerusalem - gathered with His
   disciples. It was a quiet resting-place, for retirement, prayer,
   perhaps sleep, and a trysting-place also where not only the Twelve, but
   others also, may have been wont to meet the Master. And as such it was
   known to Judas, and thither he led the armed band, when they found the
   Upper Chamber no longer occupied by Jesus and His disciples. Whether it
   had been intended that He should spend part of the night there, before
   returning to the Temple, and whose that enclosed garden was - the other
   Eden, in which the Second Adam, the Lord from heaven, bore the penalty
   of the first, and in obeying gained life - we know not, and perhaps
   ought not to inquire. It may have belonged to Mark's father. But if
   otherwise, Jesus had loving disciples even in Jerusalem, and, we
   rejoice to think, not only a home at Bethany, and an Upper Chamber
   furnished in the City, but a quiet retreat and trysting-place for His
   own under the bosom of Olivet, in the shadow of the garden of the
   Oil-press.'

   The sickly light of the moon was falling full on them as they were
   crossing Kidron. It was here, we imagine, after they had left the City
   behind them, that the Lord addressed Himself first to the disciples
   generally. We can scarcely call it either prediction or warning.
   Rather, as we think of that last Supper, of Christ passing through the
   streets of the City for the last time into that Garden, and especially
   of what was now immediately before Him, does what He spake seem
   natural, even necessary. To them - yes, to them all - He would that
   night be even a stumbling-block. And so had it been foretold of old,
   [5819] that the Shepherd would be smitten, and the sheep scattered. Did
   this prophecy of His suffering, in its grand outlines, fill the mind of
   the Saviour as He went forth on His Passion? Such Old Testament
   thoughts were at any rate present with Him, when, not unconsciously nor
   of necessity, but as the Lamb of God, He went to the slaughter. A
   peculiar significance also attaches to His prediction that, after He
   was risen, He would go before them into Galilee. [5820] For, with their
   scattering upon His Death, it seems to us, the Apostolic circle or
   College, as such, was for a time broken up. They continued, indeed, to
   meet together as individual disciples, but the Apostolic bond was
   temporarily dissolved. This explains many things: the absence of Thomas
   on the first, and his peculiar position on the second Sunday; the
   uncertainty of the disciples, as evidenced by the words of those on the
   way to Emmaus; as well as the seemingly strange movements of the
   Apostles - all which are quite changed when the Apostolic bond is
   restored. Similarly, we mark, that only seven of them seem to have been
   together by the Lake of Galilee, [5821] and that only afterwards the
   Eleven met Him on the mountain to which He had directed them. [5822] It
   was here that the the Apostolic circle or College was once more
   re-formed, and the Apostolic commission renewed, [5823] and thence they
   returned to Jerusalem, once more sent forth from Galilee, to wait the
   final events of His Ascension, and the Coming of the Holy Ghost.

   But in that night they understood none of these things. While all were
   staggering under the blow of their predicted scattering, the Lord seems
   to have turned to Peter individually. What he said, and how He put it,
   equally demand our attention: Simon, Simon' [5824] - using His old name
   when referring to the old man in him - Satan has obtained [out-asked,
   xtsato] you, for the purpose of sifting like as wheat. But I have made
   supplication for thee, that thy faith fail not.' The words admit us
   into two mysteries of heaven. This night seems to have been the power
   of darkness,' when, left of God, Christ had to meet by himself the
   whole assault of hell, and to conquer in His own strength as Man's
   Substitute and Representative. It is a great mystery: but quite
   consistent with itself. We do not, as others, here see any analogy to
   the permission given to Satan in the opening chapter of the Book of
   Job, always supposing that this embodies a real, not an allegorical
   story. But in that night the fierce wind of hell was allowed to sweep
   unbroken over the Saviour, and even to expend its fury upon those that
   stood behind in His Shelter. Satan had out-asked,' obtained it - yet
   not to destroy, nor to cast down, but to sift,' like as wheat [5825] is
   shaken in a sieve to cast out of it what is not grain. Hitherto, and no
   farther, had Satan obtained it. In that night of Christ's Agony and
   loneliness, of the utmost conflict between Christ and Satan, this seems
   almost a necessary element.

   This, then, was the first mystery that had passed. And this sifting
   would affect Peter more than the others. Judas, who loved not Jesus at
   all, has already fallen; Peter, who loved Him - perhaps not most
   intensely, but, if the expression be allowed, most extensely - stood
   next to Judas in danger. In truth, though most widely apart in their
   direction, the springs of their inner life rose in close proximity.
   There was the same readiness to kindle into enthusiasm, the same desire
   to have public opinion with him, the same shrinking from the Cross, the
   same moral inability or unwillingness to stand alone, in the one as in
   the other. Peter had abundant courage to sally out, but not to stand
   out. Viewed in its primal elements (not in its development), Peter's
   character was, among the disciples, the likest to that of Judas. If
   this shows what Judas might have become, it also explains how Peter was
   most in danger that night; and, indeed, the husks of him were cast out
   of the sieve in his denial of the Christ. But what distinguished Peter
   from Judas was his faith' of spirit, soul, and heart - of spirit, when
   he apprehended the spiritual element in Christ; [5826] of soul, when he
   confessed Him as the Christ; [5827] and of heart, when he could ask Him
   to sound the depths of his inner being, to find there real, personal
   love to Jesus. [5828]

   The second mystery of that night was Christ's supplication for Peter.
   We dare not say, as the High-Priest - and we know not when and where it
   was offered. But the expression is very strong, as of one who has need
   of a thing. [5829] And that for which He made such supplication was,
   that Peter's faith should not fail. This, and not that something new
   might be given him, or the trial removed from Peter. We mark, how
   Divine grace presupposes, not supersedes, human liberty. And this also
   explains why Jesus had so prayed for Peter, not for Judas. In the
   former case there was faith, which only required to be strengthened
   against failure - an eventuality which, without the intercession of
   Christ, was possible. To these words of His, Christ added this
   significant commission: And thou, when thou hast turned again, confirm
   thy brethren.' [5830] And how fully he did this, both in the Apostolic
   circle and in the Church, history has chronicled. Thus, although such
   may come in the regular moral order of things, Satan has not even power
   to sift' without leave of God; and thus does the Father watch in such
   terrible sifting over them for whom Christ has prayed. This is the
   first fulfilment of Christ's Prayer, that the Father would keep them
   from the Evil One.' [5831] Not by any process from without, but by the
   preservation of their faith. And thus also may we learn, to our great
   and unspeakable comfort, that not every sin - not even conscious and
   wilful sin - implies the failure of our faith, very closely though it
   lead to it; still less, our final rejection. On the contrary, as the
   fall of Simon was the outcome of the natural elements in him, so would
   it lead to their being brought to light and removed, thus fitting him
   the better for confirming his brethren. And so would light come out of
   darkness. From our human standpoint we might call such teaching
   needful: in the Divine arrangement it is only the Divine sequent upon
   the human antecedent.

   We can understand the vehement earnestness and sincerity with which
   Peter protested against of any failure on his part. We mostly deem
   those sins farthest which are nearest to us; else, much of the power of
   their temptation would be gone, and temptation changed into conflict.
   The things which we least anticipate are our falls. In all honesty -
   and not necessarily with self elevation over the others - he said, that
   even if all should be offended in Christ, he never could be, but was
   ready to go with Him into prison and death. And when, to enforce the
   warning, Christ predicted that before the repeated crowing of the cock
   [5832] ushered in the morning, [5833] Peter would thrice deny that he
   knew Him, Peter not only persisted in his asseverations, but was joined
   in them by the rest. Yet - and this seems the meaning and object of the
   words of Christ which follow - they were not aware terribly changed the
   former relations had become, and what they would have to suffer in
   consequence. [5834] When formerly He had sent forth, both without
   provision and defence, had they lacked anything? No! But now no helping
   hand would be extended to them; nay, what seemingly they would need
   even more than anything else would be a sword' - defence against
   attacks, for at the close of His history He was reckoned with
   transgressors. [5835] The Master a crucified Malefactor - what could
   His followers expect? But once more they understood Him in a grossly
   realistic manner. These Galileans, after the custom of their
   countrymen, [5836] had provided themselves with short swords, which
   they concealed under their upper garment. It was natural for men of
   their disposition, so imperfectly understanding their Master's
   teaching, to have taken what might seem to them only a needful
   precaution in coming to Jerusalem. At least two of them - among them
   Peter - now produced swords. [5837] But this was not the time of reason
   with them, and our Lord simply put it aside. Events would only too soon
   teach them.

   They had now reached the entrance of Gethsemane. It may have been that
   it led through the building with the oil-press,' and that the eight
   Apostles, who were not to come nearer to the Bush burning, but not
   consumed,' were left there. Or they may have been taken within the
   entrance of the Garden, and left there, while, pointing forward with a
   gesture of the Hand, He went yonder' and prayed [5838] According to St.
   Luke, He added the parting warning to pray that they might not enter
   into temptation.

   Eight did He leave there. The other three - Peter, James and John -
   companions before of His glory, both when He raised the daughter of
   Jairus [5839] and on the Mount of Transfiguration [5840] - He took with
   Him farther. If in that last contest His Human Soul craved for the
   presence of those who stood nearest Him and loved Him best, or if He
   would have them baptized with His Baptism, and drink of His Cup, these
   were the three of all others to be chosen. And now of a sudden the cold
   flood broke over Him. Within these few moments He had passed from the
   calm of assured victory into the anguish of the contest. Increasingly,
   with every step forward, He became sorrowful,' full of sorrow, sore
   amazed,' and desolate.' [5841] He told them of the deep sorrow of His
   Soul (psuch) even unto death, and bade them tarry there to watch with
   Him. Himself went forward to enter the contest with prayer. Only the
   first attitude of the wrestling Saviour saw they, only the first words
   in that Hour of Agony did they hear. For, as in our present state not
   uncommonly in the deepest emotions of the soul, and as had been the
   case on the Mount of Transfiguration, irresistible sleep crept over
   their frame. But what, we may reverently ask, was the cause of this
   sorrow unto death of the Lord Jesus Christ? Not fear, either of bodily
   or mental suffering: but Death. Man's nature, created of God immortal,
   shrinks (by the law of its nature) from the dissolution of the bond
   that binds body to soul. Yet to fallen man Death is not by any means
   fully Death, for he is born with the taste of it in his soul. Not so
   Christ. It was the Unfallen Man dying; it was He, Who had no experience
   of it, tasting Death, and that not for Himself but for every man,
   emptying the cup to its bitter dregs. It was the Christ undergoing
   Death by man and for man; the Incarnate God, the God-Man, submitting
   Himself vicariously to the deepest humilition, and paying the utmost
   penalty: Death - all Death. No one as He could know what Death was (not
   dying, which men dread, but Christ dreaded not); no one could taste its
   bitterness as He. His going into Death was His final conflict with
   Satan for man, and on his behalf. By submitting to it He took away the
   power of Death; He disarmed Death by burying his shaft in His own
   Heart. And beyond this lies the deep, unutterable mystery of Christ
   bearing the penalty due to our sin, bearing our death, bearing the
   penalty of the broken Law, the accumulated guilt of humanity, and the
   holy wrath of the Righteous Judge upon them. And in view of this
   mystery the heaviness of sleep seems to steal over our apprehension.

   Alone, as in His first conflict with the Evil One in the Temptation in
   the wilderness, must the Saviour enter on the last contest. With what
   agony of soul He took upon Him now and there the sins of the world, and
   in taking expiated them, we may learn from this account of what passed,
   when, with strong crying and tears unto Him that was able to save Him
   from death,' He offered up prayers and supplications.' [5842] And - we
   anticipate it already - with these results: that He was heard; that He
   learned obedience by the things which He suffered; that He was made
   perfect; and that He became: to us the Author of Eternal Salvation, and
   before God, a High-Priest after the order of Melchizedek. Alone - and
   yet even this being parted from them' (pespsthe), [5843] implied
   sorrow. [5844] [5845] And now, on His knees,' prostrate on the ground,
   prostrate on His Face, began His Agony. His very address bears witness
   to it. It is the only time, so far as recorded in the Gospels, when He
   addressed God with the personal pronoun: My Father.' [5846] [5847] The
   object of the prayer was, that, if it were possible, the hour might
   pass away from Him.' [5848] The subject of the prayer (as recorded by
   the three Gospels) was, that the Cup itself might pass away, yet always
   with the limitation, that not His Will but the Father's might be done.
   The petition of Christ, therefore, was subject not only to the Will of
   the Father, but to His own Will that the Father's Will might be done.
   [5849] We are here in full view of the deepest mystery of our faith:
   the two Natures in One Person. Both Natures spake here, and the if it
   be possible' of St. Matthew and St. Mark is in St. Luke if Thou be
   willing.' In any case, the possibility' is not physical - for with God
   all things are possible - but moral: that of inward fitness. Was there,
   then, any thought or view of a possibility,' that Christ's work could
   be accomplished without that hour and Cup? Or did it only mark the
   utmost limit of His endurance and submission? We dare not answer; we
   only reverently follow what is recorded.

   It was in this extreme Agony of Soul almost unto death, that the Angel
   appeared (as in the Temptation in the wilderness) to strengthen' and
   support His Body and Soul. And so the conflict went on, with increasing
   earnestness of prayer, all that terrible hour. [5850] For, the
   appearance of the Angel must have intimated to Him, that the Cup could
   not pass away. [5851] And at the close of that hour - as we infer from
   the fact that the disciples must still have seen on His Brow the marks
   of the Bloody Sweat [5852] - His Sweat, mingled with Blood, [5853] fell
   in great drops on the ground. And when the Saviour with this mark of
   His Agony on His Brow [5854] returned to the three, He found that deep
   sleep held them. While He lay in prayer, they lay in sleep; and yet
   where soul-agony leads not to the one, it often induces the other. His
   words, primarily addressed to Simon,' roused them, yet not sufficiently
   to fully carry to their hearts either the loving reproach, the
   admonition to Watch and pray' in view of the coming temptation, or the
   most seasonable warning about the weakness of the flesh, even where the
   spirit was willing, ready and ardent (prthumon).

   The conflict had been virtually, though not finally, decided, when the
   Saviour went back to the three sleeping disciples. He now returned to
   complete it, though both the attitude in which He prayed (no longer
   prostrate) and the wording of His Prayer - only slightly altered as it
   was - indicate how near it was to perfect victory. And once more, on
   His return to them, He found that sleep had weighted their eyes, and
   they scarce knew what answer to make to Him. Yet a third time He left
   them to pray as before. And now He returned victorious. After three
   assualts had the Tempter left Him in the wilderness; after the
   threefold conflict in the Garden he was vanquished. Christ came forth
   triumphant. No longer did He bid His disciples watch. They might, nay
   they should, sleep and take rest, ere the near terrible events of His
   Betrayal - for, the hour had come when the Son of Man was to be
   betrayed into the hands of sinners.

   A very brief period of rest this, [5855] soon broken by the call of
   Jesus to rise and go to where the other eight had been left, at the
   entrance of the Garden - to go forward and meet the band which was
   coming under the guidance of the Betrayer. And while He was speaking,
   the heavy tramp of many men and the light of lanterns and torches
   indicated the approach of Judas and his band. During the hours that had
   passed all had been prepared. When, according to arrangement, he
   appeared at the High-Priestly Palace, or more probably at that of
   Annas, who seems to have had the direction of affairs, the Jewish
   leaders first communicated with the Roman garrison. By their own
   admission they possessed no longer (for forty years before the
   destruction of Jerusalem) the power of pronouncing capital sentence.
   [5856] It is difficult to understand how, in view of this fact (so
   fully confirmed in the New Testament), it could have been imagined (as
   so generally) that the Sanhedrin had, in regular session, sought
   formally to pronounce on Jesus what, admittedly, they had not the power
   to execute. Nor, indeed, did they, when appealing to Pilate, plead that
   they had pronounced sentence of death, but only that they had a law by
   which Jesus should die. [5857] It was otherwise as regarded civil
   causes, or even minor offences. The Sanhedrin, not possessing the power
   of the sword, had, of course, neither soldiery, nor regularly armed
   band at command. The Temple-guard' under their officers served merely
   for purposes of police, and, indeed, were neither regularly armed nor
   trained. [5858] Nor would the Romans have tolerated a regular armed
   Jewish force in Jerusalem.

   We can now understand the progress of events. In the fortress of
   Antonia, close to the Temple and connected with it by two stairs,
   [5859] lay the Roman garrison. But during the Feast the Temple itself
   was guarded by an armed Cohort, consisting of from 400 to 600 men,
   [5860] so as to prevent or quell any tumult among the numerous
   pilgrims. [5861] It would be to the captain of this Cohort' that the
   Chief Priests and leaders of the Pharisees would, in the first place,
   apply for an armed guard to effect the arrest of Jesus, on the ground
   that it might lead to some popular tumult. This, without necessarily
   having to state the charge that was to be brought against Him, which
   might have led to other complications. Although St. John speaks of the
   band' by a word (spera) which always designates a Cohort' - in this
   case the Cohort,' the definite article marking it as that of the Temple
   - yet there is no reason for believing that the whole Cohort was sent.
   Still, its commander would scarcely have sent a strong detachment out
   of the Temple, and on what might lead to a riot, without having first
   referred to the Procurator, Pontius Pilate. And if further evidence
   were required, it would be in the fact that the band was led not by a
   Centurion, but by a Chiliarch, [5862] which, as there were no
   intermediate grades in the Roman army, must represent one of the six
   tribunes attached to each legion. This also explains not only the
   apparent preparedness of Pilate to sit in judgment early next morning,
   but also how Pilate's wife may have been disposed for those dreams
   about Jesus which so affrighted her.

   This Roman detachment, armed with swords and staves' - with the latter
   of which Pilate on other occasions also directed his soldiers to attack
   them who raised a tumult [5863] - was accompanied by servants from the
   High-Priest's Palace, and other Jewish officers, to direct the arrest
   of Jesus. They bore torches and lamps placed on the top of poles, so as
   to prevent any possible concealment. [5864]

   Whether or not this was the great multitude' mentioned by St. Matthew
   and St. Mark, or the band was swelled by volunteers or curious
   onlookers, is a matter of no importance. Having received this band,
   Judas proceeded on his errand. As we believe, their first move was to
   the house where the Supper had been celebrated. Learning that Jesus had
   left it with His disciples, perhaps two or three hours before, Judas
   next directed the band to the spot he knew so well: to Gethsemane. A
   signal by which to recognise Jesus seemed almost necessary with so
   large a band, and where escape or resistance might be apprehended. It
   was - terrible to say - none other than a kiss. As soon as he had so
   marked Him, the guard were to seize, and lead Him safely away.

   Combining the notices in the four Gospels, we thus picture to ourselves
   the succession of events. As the band reached the Garden, Judas went
   somewhat in advance of them, [5865] and reached Jesus just as He had
   roused the three and was preparing to go and meet His captors. He
   saluted Him, Hail, Rabbi,' so as to be heard by the rest, and not only
   kissed but covered Him with kisses, kissed Him repeatedly, loudly,
   effusively (katephilesen). The Saviour submitted to the indignity, not
   stopping, but only saying as He passed on: Friend, that for which thou
   art here;' [5866] [5867] and then, perhaps in answer to his questioning
   gesture: Judas, with a kiss deliverest thou up the Son of Man?' [5868]
   If Judas had wished, by thus going in advance of the band and saluting
   the Master with a kiss, even now to act the hypocrite and deceive Jesus
   and the disciples, as if he had not come with the armed men, perhaps
   only to warn Him of their approach, what the Lord said must have
   reached his inmost being. Indeed, it was the first mortal shaft in the
   soul of Judas. The only time we again see him, till he goes on what
   ends in his self-destruction, is as he stands, as it were sheltering
   himself, with the armed men. [5869]

   It is at this point, as we suppose, that the notices from St. John's
   Gospel [5870] come in. Leaving the traitor, and ignoring the signal
   which he had given them, Jesus advanced to the band, and asked them:
   Whom seek ye?' To the brief spoken, perhaps somewhat contemptuous,
   Jesus the Nazarene,' He replied with infinite calmness and majesty: I
   am He.' The immediate effect of these words was, we shall not say
   magical, but Divine. They had no doubt been prepared for quite other:
   either compromise, fear, or resistance. But the appearance and majesty
   of that calm Christ - heaven in His look and peace on His lips - was
   too overpowering in its effects on that untutored heathen soldiery, who
   perhaps cherished in their hearts secret misgivings of the work they
   had in hand. The foremost of them went backward, and they fell to the
   ground. But Christ's hour had come. And once more He now asked them the
   same question as before, and, on repeating their former answer, He
   said: I told you that I am He; if therefore ye seek Me, let these go
   their way,' - the Evangelist seeing in this watchful care over His own
   the initial fulfilment of the words which the Lord had previously
   spoken concerning their safe preservation, [5871] not only in the sense
   of their outward preservation, but in that of their being guarded from
   such temptations as, in their then state, they could not have endured.

   The words of Christ about those that were with Him seem to have
   recalled the leaders of the guard to full consciousness - perhaps
   awakened in them fears of a possible rising at the incitement of His
   adherents. Accordingly, it is here that we insert the notice of St.
   Matthew, [5872] and of St. Mark, [5873] that they laid hands on Jesus
   and took Him. Then it was that Peter, [5874] seeing what was coming,
   drew the sword which he carried, and putting the question to Jesus, but
   without awaiting His answer, struck at Malchus, [5875] the servant
   [5876] of the High-Priest - perhaps the Jewish leader of the band -
   cutting off his ear. But Jesus immediately restrained all such
   violence, and rebuked all self-vindication by outward violence (the
   taking of the sword that had not been received) - nay, with it all
   merely outward zeal, pointing to the fact how easily He might, as
   against this cohort,' have commanded Angelic legions. [5877] [5878] He
   had in wrestling Agony received from His Father that Cup to drink,
   [5879] [5880] and the Scriptures must in that wise be fulfilled. And so
   saying, He touched the ear of Malchus, and healed him. [5881]

   But this faint appearance of resistance was enough for the guard. Their
   leaders now bound Jesus. [5882] It was to this last, most underserved
   and uncalled-for indignity that Jesus replied by asking them, why they
   had come against Him as against a robber - one of those wild, murderous
   Sicarii. Had He not been all that week daily in the Temple, teaching?
   Why not then seize Him? But this hour' of theirs that had come, and the
   power of darkness' - this also had been foretold in Scripture!

   And as the ranks of the armed men now closed around the bound Christ,
   none dared to stay with Him, lest they also should be bound as
   resisting authority. So they all forsook Him and fled. But there was
   one there who joined not in the flight, but remained, a deeply
   interested onlooker. When the soldiers had come to seek Jesus in the
   Upper Chamber of his home, Mark, roused from sleep, had hastily cast
   about him the loose linen garment or wrapper [5883] that lay by his
   bedside, and followed the armed band to see what would come of it. He
   now lingered in the rear, and followed as they led away Jesus, never
   imagining that they would attempt to lay hold on him, since he had not
   been with the disciples nor yet in the Garden. But they, [5884] perhaps
   the Jewish servants of the High-Priest, had noticed him. They attempted
   to lay hold on him, when, disengaging himself from their grasp, he left
   his upper garment in their hands, and fled.

   So ended the first scene in the terrible drama of that night.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [5818] Ps. cxv. to cxviii.

   [5819] Zech. xiii. 7.

   [5820] St. Matt. xxvi. 32; St. Mark. xiv. 28.

   [5821] St. John xxi. 2.

   [5822] St. Matt. xxviii. 16.

   [5823] u. s. vv.18-20.

   [5824] St. Luke xxii. 31.

   [5825] It is very probable that the basis of the figure is Amos ix. 9.

   [5826] St. John vi. 68.

   [5827] St. Matt. xvi. 16.

   [5828] St. John xxi. 15-17.

   [5829] This even philologically, and in all the passages in which the
   word is used. Except in St. Matt. ix. 38, it occurs only in the
   writings of St. Luke and St. Paul.

   [5830] Curiously enough, Roman Catholic writers see in the prediction
   of his fall by implication an assertion of Peter's supremacy. This,
   because they regard Peter as the representative and head of the others.

   [5831] St. John xvii. 15.

   [5832] This crowing of the cock has given rise to a curious
   controversy, since, according to Rabbinic law, it was forbidden to keep
   fowls in Jerusalem, on account of possible Levitical defilements
   through them (Baba K. vii. 7). Reland has written a special
   dissertation on the subject, of which Schöttgen has given a brief
   abstract. We need not reproduce the arguments, but Reland urges that,
   even if that ordinance was really in force at the time of Christ (of
   which there is grave doubt), Peter might have heard the cock crow from
   Fort Antonia, occupied by the Romans, or else that it might have
   reached thus far in the still night air from outside the walls of
   Jerusalem. But there is more than doubt as to the existence of this
   ordinance at the time. There is repeated mention of cock-crow' in
   connection with the Temple-watches, and if the expression be regarded
   as not literal, but simple a designation of time, we have in Jer. Erub.
   x. 1 (p. 26 a, about middle) a story in which a cock caused the death
   of a child at Jerusalem, proving that fowls must have been kept there.

   [5833] St. Matthew speaks of this night,' St. Mark and St. Luke of this
   day,' proving, if such were needed, that the day was reckoned from
   evening to evening.

   [5834] St. Luke xxii. 35-38.

   [5835] Omit the article.

   [5836] Jos. War iii. 3, 2.

   [5837] The objection has been raised, that, according to the Mishnah
   (Shabb. vi. 4), it was not lawful to carry swords on the Sabbath. But
   even this Mishnah seems to indicate that there was divergence of
   opinion on the subject, even as regarded the Sabbath, much more a
   feast-day.

   [5838] St. Matt. xxvi. 36.

   [5839] St. Mark v. 37.

   [5840] St. Matt. xvii. 1.

   [5841] We mark a climax. The last word (demonen) used both by St.
   Matthew and St. Mark seems to indicate utter loneliness, desertion, and
   desolateness.

   [5842] Heb. v. 7.

   [5843] St. Luke xxii. 41.

   [5844] Comp. Acts. xxi.

   [5845] The Vulgate renders: avulsus est.' Bengel notes: serio affectu.'

   [5846] St. Matt. xxvi. 39, 42.

   [5847] St. Jerome notes: dicitque blandiens: Mi Pater.'

   [5848] St. Mark xiv. 36.

   [5849] This explains the p ts elabeas of Hebr. v. 7.

   [5850] St. Matt. xxvi. 40.

   [5851] Bengel: Signum bibendi calicis.'

   [5852] The pathological phenomenon of blood being forced out of the
   vessels in bloody sweat, as the consequence of agony, has been
   medically sufficiently attested. See the Commentaries.

   [5853] No one who has seen it, can forget the impression of Carlo
   Dolce's picture, in which the drops as they fall kindle into heavenly
   light.

   [5854] They probably knew of the Bloody Sweat by seeing its marks on
   His Brow, though those who did not follow Him on His capture may have
   afterwards gone, and in the moonlight seen the drops on the place where
   He had knelt.

   [5855] It will be noticed that we place an interval of time, however
   brief, between St. Matt. xxvi. 45 (and similarly St. Mark xiv. 41) and
   the following verse. So already St. Augustine.

   [5856] Sanh. 41.

   [5857] St. John xviii. 31; St. John xix. 7.

   [5858] Jos. War iv. 4. 6.

   [5859] Jos. War v. 5, 8.

   [5860] The number varied. See Marquardt, Röm. Alterthumsk. vol. v. 2,
   pp. 359, 386, 441. Canon Westcott suggests that it might have been, not
   a cohort, but a manipulus' (of about 200 men); but, as himself points
   out, the expression as used in the N.T. seems always to indicate a
   cohort.

   [5861] Jos. Ant. xxv. 5. 3.

   [5862] St. John xviii. 12.

   [5863] Jos. War ii. 9. 4.

   [5864] St. John xviii. 3.

   [5865] St. Luke.

   [5866] St. Matt xxvi. 49; comp. St. Mark xiv. 45.

   [5867] We cannot, as many interpreters, take the words in an
   interrogative sense. I presume that Christ spoke both what St. Matthew
   and what St. Luke record. Both bear internal marks of genuineness.

   [5868] St. Luke xxii. 48.

   [5869] St. John xviii. 5.

   [5870] xviii. 4-9.

   [5871] St. John xvii. 12.

   [5872] St. Matt. xxvi. 50 b.

   [5873] St. Mark xiv. 46.

   [5874] St. John xviii. 11, 26.

   [5875] The name Malchus, which occurs also in Josephus (Ant. i. 15. 1.;
   xiv. 5.2; 11. 4; War i. 8. 3), must not be derived, as is generally
   done, from {hebrew} a king. Its Hebrew equivalent, apparently, is
   Malluch, Counsellor,' a name which occurs both in the Old Testament and
   in the LXX. (1 Chron. vi. 44; Neh. x. 4, &c.), and as a later Jewish
   name in the Talmud. But both Frankel (Einl. in d. Jer. Talm. p. 114)
   and Freudenthal (Hell. Stud. p. 131) maintain that it was not a Jewish
   name, while it was common among Syrians, Phoenicians, Arabians, and
   Samaritans. The suggestion therefore lies near, that Malchus was either
   a Syrian or a Phoenician by birth.

   [5876] The definite article here marks that he was, in a special sense,
   the servant of the High-Priest - his body-servant.

   [5877] St. Matthew.

   [5878] A legion had ten cohorts.

   [5879] St. John.

   [5880] This reference to the cup which the Father had given Him to
   drink' by St. John, implies the whole history of the Agony in
   Gethsemane, which is not recorded in the Fourth Gospel. And this is, on
   many grounds, very instructive.

   [5881] St. Luke.

   [5882] St. John.

   [5883] sindn. This, no doubt, corresponds to the Sadin or Sedina which,
   in Rabbinic writings, means a linen cloth, or a loose linen wrapper,
   though, possibly, it may also mean a night-dress (see Levy, ad voc.).

   [5884] The designation young men' (St. Mark xiv. 51) is spurious.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XIII.
THURSDAY NIGHT - BEFORE ANNAS AND CAIAPHAS - PETER AND JESUS.

   (St. John xviii. 12-14; St. Matt. xxvi. 57, 58; St. Mark xiv. 53, 54;
   St. Luke xxii. 54, 55; St. John xviii. 24, 15-18; St. John xviii.
   19-23; St. Matt. xxvi. 69, 70; St. Mark xiv. 66-68; St. Luke xxii. 56,
   57; St. John xviii. 17, 18; St. Matt. xxvi. 71, 72; St. Mark xiv. 69,
   70; St. Luke xxii. 58; St. John xviii. 25; St. Matt. xxvi. 59-68; St.
   Mark xiv. 55-65; St. Luke xxii. 67-71, 63-65; St. Matt. xxvi. 73-75;
   St. Mark xiv. 70-72; St. Luke xxii. 59-62; St. John xviii. 26, 27.)

   IT was not a long way that they led the bound Christ. Probably through
   the same gate by which He had gone forth with His disciples after the
   Paschal Supper, up to where, on the slope between the Upper City and
   the Tyropoeon, stood the well-known Palace of Annas. There were no idle
   saunterers in the streets of Jerusalem at that late hour, and the tramp
   of the Roman guard must have been too often heard to startle sleepers,
   or to lead to the inquiry why that glare of lamps and torches, and Who
   was the Prisoner, guarded on that holy night by both Roman soldiers and
   servants of the High-Priest.

   If every incident in that night were not of such supreme interest, we
   might dismiss the question as almost idle, why they brought Jesus to
   the house of Annas, since he was not at that time the actual
   High-Priest. That office now devolved on Caiaphas, his son-in-law, who,
   as the Evangelist significantly reminds us, [5885] had been the first
   to enunciate in plain words what seemed to him the political necessity
   for the judicial murder of Christ. [5886] There had been no pretence on
   his part of religious motives or zeal for God; he had cynically put it
   in a way to override the scruples of those old Sanhedrists by raising
   their fears. What was the use of discussing about forms of Law or about
   that Man? it must in any case be done; even the friends of Jesus in the
   Council, as well as the punctilious observers of Law, must regard His
   Death as the less of two evils. He spoke as the bold, unscrupulous,
   determined man that he was; Sadducee in heart rather than by
   conviction; a worthy son-in-law of Annas.

   No figure is better known in contemporary Jewish history than that of
   Annas; no person deemed more fortunate or successful, but none also
   more generally execrated than the late High-Priest. He had held the
   Pontificate for only six or seven years; but it was filled by not fewer
   than five of his sons, by his son-in-law Caiaphas, and by a grandson.
   And in those days it was, at least for one of Annas' disposition, much
   better to have been than to be High-Priest. He enjoyed all the dignity
   of the office, and all its influence also, since he was able to promote
   to it those most closely connected with him. And, while they acted
   publicly, he really directed affairs, without either the responsibility
   or the restraints which the office imposed. His influence with the
   Romans he owned to the religious views which he professed. to his open
   partisanship of the foreigner, and to his enormous wealth. The
   Sadducean Annas was an eminently safe Churchman, not troubled with any
   special convictions nor with Jewish fanaticism, a pleasant and a useful
   man also who was able to furnish his friends in the Prætorium with
   large sums of money. We have seen what immense revenues the family of
   Annas must have derived from the Temple-booths, and how nefarious and
   unpopular was the traffic. The names of those bold, licentious,
   unscrupulous, degenerate sons of Aaron were spoken with whispered
   curses. [5887] Without referring to Christ's interference with that
   Temple-traffic, which, if His authority had prevailed, would, of
   course, have been fatal to it, we can understand how antithetic in
   every respect a Messiah, and such a Messiah as Jesus, must have been to
   Annas. He was as resolutely bent on His Death as his son-in-law, though
   with his characteristic cunning and coolness, not in the hasty, bluff
   manner of Caiaphas. It was probably from a desire that Annas might have
   the conduct of the business, or from the active, leading part which
   Annas took in the matter; perhaps for even more prosaic and practical
   reasons, such as that the Palace of Annas was nearer to the place of
   Jesus' capture, and that it was desirable to dismiss the Roman soldiery
   as quickly as possible - that Christ was first brought to Annas, and
   not to the actual High-Priest.

   In any case, the arrangement was most congruous, whether as regards the
   character of Annas, or the official position of Caiaphas. The Roman
   soldiers had evidently orders to bring Jesus to the late High-Priest.
   This appears from their proceeding directly to him, and from this, that
   apparently they returned to quarters immediately on delivering up their
   prisoner. [5888] And we cannot ascribe this to any official position of
   Annas in the Sanhedrin, first, because the text implies that it had not
   been due to this cause, [5889] and, secondly, because, as will
   presently appear, the proceedings against Christ were not those of the
   ordinary and regular meetings of the Sanhedrin.

   No account is given of what passed before Annas. Even the fact of
   Christ's being first brought to him is only mentioned in the Fourth
   Gospel. As the disciples had all forsaken Him and fled, we can
   understand that they were in ignorance of what actually passed, till
   they had again rallied, at least so far, that Peter and another
   disciple,' evidently John, followed Him into the Palace of the
   High-priest' - that is, into the Palace of Caiaphas, not of Annas. For
   as, according to the three Synoptic Gospels, the Palace of the
   High-Priest Caiaphas was the scene of Peter's denial, the account of it
   in the Fourth Gospel [5890] [5891] must refer to the same locality, and
   not to the Palace of Annas, while the suggestion that Annas and
   Caiaphas occupied the same dwelling is not only very unlikely in
   itself, but seems incompatible with the obvious meaning of the notice,
   [5892] Now Annas sent Him bound unto Caiaphas the High-Priest.' But if
   Peter's denial, as recorded by St. John, is the same as that described
   by the Synoptists, and took place in the house of Caiaphas, then the
   account of the examination by the High-Priest, [5893] which follows the
   notice about Peter, must also refer to that by Caiaphas, not Annas.
   [5894] We thus know absolutely nothing of what passed in the house of
   Annas - if, indeed, anything passed - except that Annas sent Jesus
   bound to Caiaphas. [5895]

   Of what occurred in the Palace of Caiaphas we have two accounts. That
   of St. John [5896] seems to refer to a more private interview between
   the High-Priest and Christ, at which, apparently, only some personal
   attendants of Caiaphas were present, from one of whom the Apostle may
   have derived his information. [5897] The second account is that of the
   Synoptists, and refers to the examination of Jesus at dawn of day
   [5898] by the leading Sanhedrists, who had been hastily summoned for
   the purpose.

   It sounds almost like presumption to say, that in His first interview
   with Caiaphas Jesus bore Himself with the majesty of the Son of God,
   Who knew all that was before Him, and passed through it as on the way
   to the accomplishment of His Mission. The questions of Caiaphas bore on
   two points: the disciples of Jesus, and His teaching - the former to
   incriminate Christ's followers, the latter to incriminate the Master.
   To the first inquiry it was only natural that He should not have
   condescended to return an answer. The reply to the second was
   characterised by that openness' which He claimed for all that He had
   said. [5899] [5900] If there was to be not unprejudiced, but even fair
   inquiry, let Caiaphas not try to extort confessions to which he had no
   legal right, nor to ensnare Him when the purpose was evidently
   murderous. If he really wanted information, there could be no
   difficulty in procuring witnesses to speak to His doctrine: all Jewry
   knew it. His was no secret doctrine (in secret I spake nothing'). He
   always spoke in Synagogue and in the Temple, whither all the Jews
   gather together.' [5901] If the inquiry were a fair one, let the judge
   act judicially, and ask not Him, but those who had heard Him.

   It must be admitted, that the answer sounds not like that of one
   accused, who seeks either to make apology, or even greatly cares to
   defend himself. And there was in it that tone of superiority which even
   injured human innocence would have a right to assume before a nefarious
   judge, who sought to ensnare a victim, not to elicit the truth. It was
   this which emboldened one of those servile attendants, with the
   brutality of an Eastern in such circumstances, to inflict on the Lord
   that terrible blow. Let us hope that it was a heathen, not a Jew, who
   so lifted his hand. We are almost thankful that the text leaves it in
   doubt, whether it was with the palm of the hand, or the lesser
   indignity - with a rod. Humanity itself seems to reel and stagger under
   this blow. In pursuance of His Human submission, the Divine Sufferer,
   without murmuring or complaining, or without asserting His Divine
   Power, only answered in such tone of patient expostulation as must have
   convicted the man of his wrong, or at least have left him speechless.
   May it have been that these words and the look of Christ had gone to
   his heart, and that the now strangely-silenced malefactor became the
   confessing narrator of this scene to the Apostle John?

   2. That Apostle was, at any rate, no stranger in the Palace of
   Caiaphas. We have already seen that, after the first panic of Christ's
   sudden capture and their own flight, two of them at least, Peter and
   John, seem speedily to have rallied. Combining the notices of the
   Synoptists [5902] with the fuller details, in this respect, of the
   Fourth Gospel, [5903] we derive the impression that Peter, so far true
   to his word, had been the first to stop in his flight and to follow
   afar off.' If he reached the Palace of Annas in time, he certainly did
   not enter it, bnt probably waited outside during the brief space which
   preceded the transference of Jesus to Caiaphas. He had now been joined
   by John, and the two followed the melancholy procession which escorted
   Jesus to the High-Priest. John seems to have entered the court' along
   with the guard, [5904] while Peter remained outside till his
   fellow-Apostle, who apparently was well known in the High-Priest's
   house, had spoken to the maid who kept the door - the male servants
   being probably all gathered in the court [5905] - and so procured his
   admission.

   Remembering that the High-Priest's Palace was built on the slope of the
   hill, and that there was an outer court, from which a door led into the
   inner court, we can, in some measure, realise the scene. As previously
   stated, Peter had followed as far as that inner door, while John had
   entered with the guard. When he missed his fellow-disciple, who was
   left outside this inner door, John went out,' and, having probably told
   the waiting-maid that this was a friend of his, procured his admission.
   While John now hurried up to be in the Palace, and as near Christ as he
   might, Peter advanced into the middle of the court, where, in the chill
   spring night, a coal fire had been lighted. The glow of the charcoal,
   around which occasionally a blue flame played, threw a peculiar sheen
   on the bearded faces of the men as they crowded around it, and talked
   of the events of that night, describing, with Eastern volubility, to
   those who had not been there what had passed in the Garden, and
   exchanging, as is the manner of such serving-men and officials,
   opinions and exaggerated denunciations concerning Him Who had been
   captured with such unexpected ease, and was now their master's safe
   Prisoner. As the red light glowed and flickered, it threw the long
   shadows of these men across the inner court, up the walls towards the
   gallery that ran round, up there, where the lamps and lights within, or
   as they moved along apartments and corridors, revealed other faces:
   there, where, in an inner audience-chamber, the Prisoner was confronted
   by His enemy, accuser, and judge.

   What a contrast it all seemed between the Purification of the Temple
   only a few days before, when the same Jesus had overturned the
   trafficking tables of the High-Priest, and as He now stood, a bound
   Prisoner before him, at the mercy of every menial who might carry
   favour by wantonly insulting Him? It was a chill night when Peter, down
   beneath,' [5906] looked up to the lighted windows. There, among the
   serving-men in the court, he was in every sense without.' [5907] He
   approached the group around the fire. He would hear what they had to
   say; besides, it was not safe to stand apart; he might be recognised as
   one of those who had only escaped capture in the Garden by hasty
   flight. And then it was chill - and not only to the body, the chill had
   struck to his soul. Was he right in having come there at all?
   Commentators have discussed it as involving neglect of Christ's
   warning. As if the love of any one who was, and felt, as Peter, could
   have credited the possibility of what he had been warned of; and, if he
   had credited it, would, in the first moments of returning flood after
   the panic of his flight, have remembered that warning, or with cool
   calculation acted up to the full measure of it! To have fled to his
   home and shut the door behind him, by way of rendering it impossible to
   deny that he knew Christ, would not have been Peter nor any true
   disciple. Nay, it would itself have been a worse and more cowardly
   denial than that of which he was actually guilty. Peter followed afar
   off, thinking of nothing else but his imprisoned Master, and that he
   would see the end, whatever it might be. But now it was chill, very
   chill, to body and soul, and Peter remembered it all; not, indeed, the
   warning, but that of which he had been warned. What good could his
   confession do? perhaps much possible harm; and why was he there?

   Peter was very restless, and yet he must seem very quiet. He sat down'
   among the servants, [5908] then he stood up among them. [5909] It was
   this restlessness of attempted indifference which attracted the
   attention of the maid who had at the first admitted him. As in the
   uncertain light she scanned the features of the mysterious stranger,
   she boldly charged him, [5910] though still in a questioning tone, with
   being one of the disciples of the Man Who stood incriminated up there
   before the High-Priest. And in the chattering of his soul's fever, into
   which the chill had struck, Peter vehemently denied all knowledge of
   Him to Whom the woman referred, nay, of the very meaning of what she
   said. He had said too much not to bring soon another charge upon
   himself. We need not inquire which of the slightly varying reports in
   the Gospels represents the actual words of the woman or the actual
   answer of Peter. Perhaps neither; perhaps all - certainly, she said all
   this, and, certainly, he answered all that, though neither of them
   would confine their words to the short sentences reported by each of
   the Evangelists.

   What had he to do there? And why should he incriminate himself, or
   perhaps Christ, by a needless confession to those who had neither the
   moral nor the legal right to exact it? That was all he now remembered
   and thought; nothing about any denial of Christ. And so, as they were
   still chatting together, perhaps bandying words, Peter withdrew. We
   cannot judge how long time had passed, but this we gather, that the
   words of the woman had either not made any impression on those around
   the fire, or that the bold denial of Peter had satisfied them.
   Presently, we find Peter walking away down the porch,' [5911] which ran
   round and opened into the outer court.' [5912] He was not thinking of
   anything else now than how chilly it felt, and how right he had been in
   not being entrapped by that woman. And so he heeded it not, while his
   footfall sounded along the marble-paved porch, that just at this moment
   a cock crew.' But there was no sleep that night in the High-Priest's
   Palace. As he walked down the porch towards the outer court, first one
   maid met him; and then, as he returned from the outer court, he once
   more encountered his old accuser, the door-portress; and as he crossed
   the inner court to mingle again with the group around the fire, where
   he had formerly found safety, he was first accosted by one man, and
   then they all around the fire turned upon him, and each and all had the
   same thing to say, the same charge, that he was also one of the
   disciples of Jesus of Nazareth. But Peter's resolve was taken; he was
   quite sure it was right; and to each separately, and to all together,
   he gave the same denial, more brief now, for he was collected and
   determined, but more emphatic - even with an oath. [5913] And once more
   he silenced suspicion for a time. Or, perhaps, attention was now
   otherwise directed.

   3. For, already, hasty footsteps were heard along the porches and
   corridors, and the maid who that night opened the gate at the
   High-Priest's Palace was busy at her post. They were the leading
   Priests, Elders, and Sanhedrists, [5914] who had been hastily summoned
   to the High-Priest's Palace, and who were hurrying up just as the first
   faint streaks of gray light were lying on the sky. The private
   examination by Caiaphas we place (as in the Gospel of St. John) between
   the first and second denial of Peter; the first arrival of Sanhedrists
   immediately after his second denial. The private inquiry of Caiaphas
   had elicited nothing; and, indeed, it was only preliminary. The leading
   Sanhedrists must have been warned that the capture of Jesus would be
   attempted that night, and to hold themselves in readiness when summoned
   to the High-Priest. This is not only quite in accordance with all the
   previous and after circumstances in the narrative, but nothing short of
   a procedure of such supreme importance would have warranted the
   presence for such a purpose of these religious leaders on that holy
   Passover-night.

   But whatever view be taken, thus much at least is certain, that it was
   no formal, regular meeting of the Sanhedrin. We put aside, as à priori
   reasoning, such considerations as that protesting voices would have
   been raised, not only from among the friends of Jesus, but from others
   whom (with all their Jewish hatred of Christ) we cannot but regard as
   incapable of such gross violation of justice and law. But all Jewish
   order and law would have been grossly infringed in almost every
   particular, if this had been a formal meeting of the Sanhedrin. [5915]
   We know what their forms were, although many of them (as so much in
   Rabbinic accounts) may represent rather the ideal than the real - what
   the Rabbis imagined should be, rather than what was; or else what may
   date from later times. According to Rabbinic testimony, there were
   three tribunals. In towns numbering less than 120 (or, according to one
   authority, 230 [5916] ) male inhabitants, there was only the lowest
   tribunal, that consisting of three Judges. [5917] Their jurisdiction
   was limited, and notably did not extend to capital causes. [5918] The
   authority of the tribunal of next instance - that of twenty-three
   [5919] - was also limited, although capital causes lay within its
   competence. The highest tribunal was that of seventy-one, or the Great
   Sanhedrin, which met first in one of the Temple-Chambers, the so-called
   Lishkath haGazith - or Chamber of Hewn Stones - and at the time of
   which we write in the booths of the sons of Annas.' [5920] The Judges
   of all these Courts were equally set apart by ordination (Semikhah),
   originally that of the laying on of hands. Ordination was conferred by
   three, of whom one at least must have been himself ordained, and able
   to trace up his ordination through Joshua to Moses. [5921] This, of
   course, on the theory that there had been a regular succession of
   ordained Teachers, not only up to Ezra, but beyond him to Joshua and
   Moses. The members of the tribunals of twenty-three were appointed by
   the Great Sanhedrin. [5922] The members of the tribunals of three were
   likewise appointed by the Great Sanhedrin, which entrusted to men,
   specially accredited and worthy, the duty of travelling through the
   towns of Palestine and appointing and ordaining in them the men best
   fitted for the office. [5923] The qualifications mentioned for the
   office remind us of those which St. Paul indicates as requisite for the
   Christian eldership. [5924]

   Some inferences seem here of importance, as throwing light on early
   Apostolic arrangements - believing, as we do, that the outward form of
   the Church was in great measure derived from the Synagogue. First, we
   notice that there was regular ordination, and, at first at least, by
   the laying on of hands. Further, this ordination was not requisite
   either for delivering addresses or conducting the liturgy in the
   Synagogue, but for authoritative teaching, and especially for judicial
   functions, to which would correspond in the Christian Church the power
   of the Keys - the administration of discipline and of the Sacraments as
   admitting into, and continuing in the fellowship of the Church. Next,
   ordination could only be conferred by those who had themselves been
   rightly ordained, and who could, therefore, through those previously
   ordained, trace their ordination upwards. Again, each of these Colleges
   of Presbyters' had its Chief or President. Lastly, men entrusted with
   supreme (Apostolic) authority were sent to the various towns to appoint
   elders in every city.' [5925]

   The appointment to the highest tribunal, or Great Sanhedrin, was made
   by that tribunal itself, either by promoting a member of the inferior
   tribunals or one from the foremost of the three rows, in which the
   disciples' or students sat  facing the Judges. The latter sat in a
   semicircle, under the presidency of the Nasi (prince') and the
   vice-presidency of the Ab-beth-din (father of the Court of Law').
   [5926] At least twenty-three members were required to form a quorum.
   [5927] We have such minute details of the whole arrangements and
   proceedings of this Court as greatly confirms our impression of the
   chiefly ideal character of some of the Rabbinic notices. Facing the
   semicircle of Judges, we are told, there were two shorthand writers, to
   note down, respectively, the speeches in favour and against the
   accused. Each of the students knew, and sat in his own place. In
   capital causes the arguments in defence of and afterwards those
   incriminating the accused, were stated. If one had spoken in favour, he
   might not again speak against the panel. Students might speak for, not
   against him. He might be pronounced not guilty' on the same day on
   which the case was tried; but a sentence of guilty' might only be
   pronounced on the day following that of the trial. It seems, however,
   at least doubtful, whether in case of profanation of the Divine Name
   (Chillul haShem), judgment was not immediately executed. [5928] Lastly,
   the voting began with the youngest, so that juniors might not be
   influenced by the seniors; and a bare majority was not sufficient for
   condemnation.

   These are only some of the regulations laid down in Rabbinic writings.
   It is of greater importance to enquire, how far they were carried out
   under the iron rule of Herod and that of the Roman Procurators. Here we
   are in great measure left to conjecture. We can well believe that
   neither Herod nor the Procurators would wish to abolish the Sanhedrin,
   but would leave to them the administration of justice, especially in
   all that might in any way be connected with purely religious questions.
   Equally we can understand, that both would deprive them of the power of
   the sword and of decision on all matters of political or supreme
   importance. Herod would reserve to himself the final disposal in all
   cases, if he saw fit to interfere, and so would the Procurators, who
   especially would not have tolerated any attempt at jurisdiction over a
   Roman citizen. In short, the Sanhedrin would be accorded full
   jurisdiction in inferior and in religious matters, with the greatest
   show, but with the least amount, of real rule or of supreme authority.
   Lastly, as both Herod and the Procurators treated the High-Priest, who
   was their own creature, as the real head and representative of the
   Jews; and as it would be their policy to curtail the power of the
   independent and fanatical Rabbis, we can understand how, in great
   criminal causes or in important investigations, the High-Priest would
   always preside - the presidency of the Nasi being reserved for legal
   and ritual questions and discussions. And with this the notices alike
   in the New Testament and in Josephus accord.

   Even this brief summary about the Sanhedrin would be needless, if it
   were a question of applying its rules of procedure to the arraignment
   of Jesus. For, alike Jewish and Christian evidence establish the fact,
   that Jesus was not formally tried and condemned by the Sanhedrin. It is
   admitted on all hands, that forty years before the destruction of the
   Temple the Sanhedrin ceased to pronounce capital sentences. This alone
   would be sufficient. But, besides, the trial and sentence of Jesus in
   the Palace of Caiaphas would (as already stated) have outraged every
   principle of Jewish criminal law and procedure. Such causes could only
   be tried, and capital sentence pronounced, in the regular meeting-place
   of the Sanhedrin, [5929] [5930] not, as here, in the High-Priest's
   Palace; no process, least of all such an one, might be begun in the
   night, not even in the afternoon, [5931] [5932] although if the
   discussion had gone on all day, sentence might be pronounced at night.
   [5933] Again, no process could take place on Sabbaths or Feastdays,
   [5934] or even on the eves of them, [5935] [5936] although this would
   not have nullified proceedings, and it might be argued on the other
   side, that a process against one who had seduced the people should
   preferably by carried on, and sentence executed, at the great public
   Feasts, [5937] for the warning of all. Lastly, in capital causes there
   was a very elaborate system of warning and cautioning witnesses, [5938]
   while it may safely be affirmed, that at a regular trial Jewish Judges,
   however prejudiced, would not have acted as the Sanhedrists and
   Caiaphas did on this occasion.

   But as we examine it more closely, we perceive that the
   Gospel-narratives do not speak of a formal trial and sentence by the
   Sanhedrin. Such references as to the Sanhedrin' (council'), or to all
   the Sanhedrin,' must be taken in the wider sense, which will presently
   be explained. On the other hand, the four Gospels equally indicate that
   the whole proceedings of that night were carried on in the Palace of
   Caiaphas, and that during that night no formal sentence of death was
   pronounced. St. John, indeed, does not report the proceedings at all;
   St. Matthew [5939] only records the question of Caiaphas and the answer
   of the Sanhedrists; and even the language of St. Mark does not convey
   the idea of a formal sentence. [5940] And when in the morning, in
   consequence of a fresh consultation, also in the Palace of Caiaphas,
   they led Jesus to the Prætorium, it was not as a prisoner condemned to
   death of whom they asked the execution, [5941] but as one against whom
   they laid certain accusations worthy of death, [5942] while, when
   Pilate bade them judge Jesus according to Jewish Law, they replied,
   not: that they had done so already, but, that they had no competence to
   try capital causes. [5943]

   4. But although Christ was not tried and sentenced in a formal meeting
   of the Sanhedrin, there can, alas! be no question that His Condemnation
   and Death were the work, if not of the Sanhedrin - yet of the
   Sanhedrists, of the whole body of them (all the council'), in the sense
   of expressing what was the judgment and purpose of all the Supreme
   Council and Leaders of Israel, with only very few exceptions. We bear
   in mind, that the resolution to sacrifice Christ had for some time been
   taken. Terrible as the proceedings of that night were, they even seem a
   sort of concession - as if the Sanhedrists would fain have found some
   legal and moral justification for what they had determined to do. They
   first sought witness,' or as St. Matthew rightly designates it, false
   witness' against Christ. [5944] Since this was throughout a private
   investigation, this witness could only have been sought from their own
   creatures. Hatred, fanaticism, and unscruplous Eastern exaggeration
   would readily misrepresent and distort certain sayings of Christ, or
   falsely impute others to Him. But it was altogather too hasty and
   excited an assemblage, and the witnesses contradicted themselves so
   grossly, or their testimony so notoriously broke down, that for very
   shame such trumped-up charges had to be abandoned. And to this result
   the majestic calm of Christ's silence must have greatly contributed. On
   directly false and contradictory testimony it must be best not to
   cross-examine at all, not to interpose, but to leave the false witness
   to destroy itself.

   Abandoning this line of testimony, the Priests next brought forward
   probably some of their own order, who on the first Purgation of the
   Temple had been present when Jesus, in answer to the challenge for a
   sign' in evidence of His authority, had given them that mysterious
   sign' of the destruction and upraising of the Temple of His Body.
   [5945] [5946] They had quite misunderstood it at the time, and its
   reproduction now as the ground of a criminal charge against Jesus must
   have been directly due to Caiaphas and Annas. We remember, that this
   had been the first time that Jesus had come into collision, not only
   with the Temple authorities, but with the avarice of the family of
   Annas.' We can imagine how the incensed High-Priest would have
   challenged the conduct of the Temple-officials, and how, in reply, he
   would have been told what they had attempted, and how Jesus had met
   them. Perhaps it was the only real inquiry which a man like Caiaphas
   would care to institute about what Jesus said. And here, in its grossly
   distorted form, and with more than Eastern exaggeration of partisanship
   it was actually brought forward as a criminal charge!

   Dexterously manipulated, the testimony of these witnesses might lead up
   to two charges. It would show that Christ was a dangerous seducer of
   the people, Whose claims might have led those who believed them to lay
   violent hands on the Temple, while the supposed assertion, that He
   would [5947] or was able [5948] to build the Temple again within three
   days, might be made to imply Divine or magical pretensions. [5949] A
   certain class of writers have ridiculed this part of the Sanhedrist
   plot against Jesus. It is, indeed, true, that, viewed as a Jewish
   charge, it might have been difficult, if not impossible, to construe a
   capital crime out of such charges, although, to say the least, a strong
   popular prejudice might thus have been raised against Jesus - and this,
   no doubt, was one of the objects which Caiaphas had in view. But it has
   been strangely forgotten that the purpose of the High-Priest was not to
   formulate a capital charge in Jewish Law, since the assembled
   Sanhedrists had no intention so to try Jesus, but to formulate a charge
   which would tell before the Roman Procurator. And here none other could
   be so effective as that of being a fanatical seducer of the ignorant
   populace, who might lead them on to wild tumultuous acts. Two similar
   instances, in which the Romans quenched Jewish fanaticism in the blood
   of the pretenders and their deluded followers, will readily recur to
   the mind. [5950] In any case, Caiaphas would naturally seek to ground
   his accusation of Jesus before Pilate on anything rather than His
   claims to Messiahship and the inheritance of David. It would be a cruel
   irony if a Jewish High-Priest had to expose the loftiest and holiest
   hope of Israel to the mockery of a Pilate; and it might prove a
   dangerous proceeding, whether as regarded the Roman Governor or the
   feelings of the Jewish people.

   But this charge of being a seducer of the people also broke down,
   through the disagreement of the two witnesses whom the Mosaic Law
   required, [5951] and who, according to Rabbinic ordinance, had to be
   separately questioned. [5952] But the divergence of their testimony
   does not exactly appear in the differences in the accounts of St.
   Matthew and of St. Mark. If it be deemed necessary to harmonise these
   two narratives, it would be better to regard both as relating the
   testimony of these two witnesses. What St. Mark reported may have been
   followed by what St. Matthew records, or vice versâ, the one being, so
   to speak, the basis of the other. But all this time Jesus preserved the
   same majestic silence as before, nor could the impatience of Caiaphas,
   who sprang from his seat to confront, and, if possible, browbeat his
   Prisoner, extract from Him any reply.

   Only one thing now remained. Jesus knew it well, and so did Caiaphas.
   It was to put the question, which Jesus could not refuse to answer, and
   which, once answered, must lead either to His acknowledgement or to His
   condemnation. In the brief historical summary which St. Luke furnishes,
   there is an inversion of the sequence of events, by which it might seem
   as if what he records had taken place at the meeting of the Sanhedrists
   [5953] on the next morning. But a careful consideration of what passed
   there obliges us to regard the report of St. Luke as referring to the
   night-meeting described by St. Matthew and St. Mark. The motive for St.
   Luke's inversion of the sequence of events may have been, [5954] that
   he wished to group in a continuous narrative Peter's threefold denial,
   the third of which occurred after the night-sitting of the Sanhedrin,
   at which the final adjuration of Caiaphas elicited the reply which St.
   Luke records, as well as the other two Evangelists. Be this as it may,
   we owe to St. Luke another trait in the drama of that night. As we
   suppose, the simple question was first addressed to Jesus, whether He
   was the Messiah? to which He replied by referring to the needlessness
   of such an enquiry, since they had predetermined not to credit His
   claims, nay, had only a few days before in the Temple refused [5955] to
   discuss them. [5956] It was upon this that the High-Priest, in the most
   solemn manner, adjured the True One by the Living God, Whose Son He
   was, to say it, whether He were the Messiah and Divine - the two being
   so joined together, not in Jewish belief, but to express the claims of
   Jesus. No doubt or hesitation could here exist. Solemn, emphatic, calm,
   majestic, as before had been His silence, was now His speech. And His
   assertion of what He was, was conjoined with that of what God would
   show Him to be, in His Resurrection and Sitting at the Right Hand of
   the Father, and of what they also would see, when He would come in
   those clouds of heaven that would break over their city and polity in
   the final storm of judgment.

   They all heard it - and, as the Law directed when blasphemy was spoken,
   the High Priest rent both his outer and inner garment, with a rent that
   might never be repaired. [5957] But the object was attained. Christ
   would neither explain, modify, nor retract His claims. They had all
   heard it; what use was there of witnesses, He had spoken Giddupha,
   [5958] blaspheming.' Then, turning to those assembled, he put to them
   the usual question which preceded [5959] the formal sentence of death.
   As given in the Rabbinical original, it is: [5960] What think ye
   gentlemen? And they answered, if for life, "For life!" and if for
   death, "For death."' [5961] But the formal sentence of death, which, if
   it had been a regular meeting of the Sanhedrin, must now have been
   spoken by the President, [5962] was not pronounced. [5963]

   There is a curious Jewish conceit, that on the Day of Atonement the
   golden band on the High Priest's mitre, with the graven words, Holiness
   unto Jehovah,' atoned for those who had blasphemed. [5964] It stands
   out in terrible contrast to the figure of Caiaphas on that awful night.
   Or did the unseen mitre on the True and Eternal High-Priest's Brow,
   marking the consecration of His Humiliation to Jehovah, plead for them
   who in that night were gathered there, the blind leaders of the blind?
   Yet amidst so many most solemn thoughts, some press prominently
   forward. On that night of terror, when all the enmity of man and the
   power of hell were unchained, even the falsehood of malevolence could
   not lay any crime to His charge, nor yet any accusation be brought
   against him other than the misrepresentation of His symbolic Words.
   What testimony to Him this solitary false and ill-according witness!
   Again: They all condemned Him to be worthy of death.' Judaism itself
   would not now re-echo this sentence of the Sanhedrists. And yet is it
   not after all true - that He was either the Christ, the Son of God, or
   a blasphemer? This Man, alone so calm and majestic among those
   impassioned false judges and false witnesses; majestic in His silence,
   majestic in His speech; unmoved by threats to speak, undaunted by
   threats when He spoke; Who saw it all - the end from the beginning; the
   Judge among His judges, the Witness before His witnesses: which was He
   - the Christ or a blaspheming impostor? Let history decide; let the
   heart and conscience of mankind give answer. If He had been what israel
   said, He deserved the death of the Cross; if He is what the
   Christmas-bells of the Church, and the chimes of the
   Resurrection-morning ring out, then do we rightly worship Him as the
   Son of the Living God, the Christ, the Saviour of men.

   5. It was after this meeting of the Sanhedrists had broken up, that, as
   we learn from the Gospel of St. Luke, the revolting insults and
   injuries were perpetrated on Him by the guards and servants of
   Caiaphas. All now rose in combined rebellion against the Perfect Man:
   the abject servility of the East, which delighted in insults on One
   Whom it could never have vanquished, and had not even dared to attack;
   that innate vulgarity, which loves to trample on fallen greatness, and
   to deck out in its own manner a triumph where no victory has been won;
   the brutality of the worse than animal in man (since in him it is not
   under the guidance of Divine instinct), and which, when unchained,
   seems to intensify in coarseness and ferocity; [5965] and the profanity
   and devilry which are wont to apply the wretched witticisms of what is
   misnomered common sense and the blows of tyrannical usurpation of power
   to all that is higher and better, to what these men cannot grasp and
   dare not look up to, and before the shadows of which, when cast by
   superstition, they cower and tremble in abject fear! And yet these
   insults, taunts, and blows which fell upon that lonely Sufferer, not
   defenceless, but undefending, not vanquished, but uncontending, not
   helpless, but majestic in voluntary self-submission for the highest
   purpose of love - have not only exhibited the curse of humanity, but
   also removed it by letting it descend on Him, the Perfect Man, the
   Christ, the Son of God. And ever since has every noble-hearted sufferer
   been able on the strangely clouded day to look up, and follow what, as
   it touches earth, is the black misty shadow, to where, illumined by
   light from behind, it passes into the golden light - a mantle of
   darkness as it enwraps us, merging in light up there where its folds
   seem held together by the Hand from heaven.

   This is our Sufferer - the Christ or a blasphemer; and in that
   alternative which of us would not choose the part of the Accused rather
   than of His judges? So far as recorded, not a word escaped His Lips;
   not a complaint, nor murmur; nor utterance of indignant rebuke, nor
   sharp cry of deeply sensitive, pained nature. He was drinking, slowly,
   with the consciousness of willing self-surrender, the Cup which His
   Father had given Him. And still His Father - and this also specially in
   His Messianic relationship to man.

   We have seen that, when Caiaphas and the Sanhedrists quitted the
   audience-chamber, Jesus was left to the unrestrained licence of the
   attendants. Even the Jewish Law had it, that no prolonged death'
   (Mithah Arikhta) might be inflicted, and that he who was condemned to
   death was not to be previously scourged. [5966] At last they were weary
   of insult and smiting, and the Sufferer was left alone, perhaps in the
   covered gallery, or at one of the windows that overlooked the court
   below. About one hour had passed [5967] since Peter's second denial
   had, so to speak, been interrupted by the arrival of the Sanhedrists.
   Since then the excitement of the mock-trial, with witnesses coming and
   going, and, no doubt, in Eastern fashion repeating what had passed to
   those gathered in the court around the fire; then the departure of the
   Sanhedrists, and again the insults and blows inflicted on the Sufferer,
   had diverted attention from Peter. Now it turned once more upon him;
   and, in the circumstances, naturally more intensely than before. The
   chattering of Peter, whom conscience and consciousness made nervously
   garrulous, betrayed him. This one also was with Jesus the Nazarene;
   truly, he was of them - for he was also a Galilean! So spake the
   bystanders; while, according to St. John, a fellow-servant and kinsman
   of that Malchus, whose ear Peter, in his zeal, had cut off in
   Gethsemane, asserted that he actually recognised him. To one and all
   these declarations Peter returned only a more vehement denial,
   accompanying it this time with oaths to God and imprecations on
   himself.

   The echo of his words had scarcely died out - their diastole had
   scarcely returned them with gurgling noise upon his conscience - when
   loud and shrill the second cock-crowing was heard. There was that in
   its harsh persistence of sound that also wakened his memory. He now
   remembered the words of warning prediction which the Lord had spoken.
   He looked up; and as he looked, he saw, how up there, just at that
   moment; the Lord turned round [5968] and looked upon him - yes, in all
   that assembly, upon Peter! His eyes spake His Words; nay, much more;
   they searched down to the innermost depths of Peter's heart, and broke
   them open. They had pierced through all self-delusion, false shame, and
   fear: they had reached the man, the disciple, the lover of Jesus. Forth
   they burst, the waters of conviction, of true shame, of heart-sorrow,
   of the agonies of self-condemnation; and, bitterly weeping, he rushed
   from under those suns that had melted the ice of death and burnt into
   his heart - out from that cursed place of betrayal by Israel, by its
   High Priest - and even by the representative Disciple.

   Out he rushed into the night. Yet a night lit up by the stars of
   promise - chiefest among them this, that the Christ up there - the
   conquering Sufferer - had prayed for him. God grant us in the night of
   our conscious self-condemnation the same star-light of His Promises,
   the same assurance of the intercession of the Christ, that so, as
   Luther puts it, the particularness of the account of Peter's denial, as
   compared with the briefness of that of Christ's Passion, may carry to
   our hearts this lesson: The fruit and use of the sufferings of Christ
   is this, that in them we have the forgiveness of our sins.'
     __________________________________________________________________

   [5885] St. John xviii. 14.

   [5886] xi. 50.

   [5887] Pes. 57 a.

   [5888] No further reference whatever is made to the Roman guard.

   [5889] We read (St. John xviii. 13):'For he was father-in-law to
   Caiaphas.'

   [5890] St. John xviii. 15-18.

   [5891] And hence also that of the two disciples following Christ.

   [5892] ver. 24.

   [5893] St. John xviii. 19-23.

   [5894] In this argument we lay little stress on the designation,
   High-Priest,' which St. John (ver. 19) gives to the examiner of Christ,
   although it is noteworthy that he carefully distinguishes between Annas
   and Caiaphas, marking the latter as the High-Priest' (vv. 13, 24).

   [5895] According to our argument, St. John xviii. 24 is an intercalated
   notice, referring to what had previously been recorded in vv. 15-23. To
   this two critical objections have been raised. It is argued, that as
   psteilen is in the aorist, not plu-perfect, the rendering must be,
   Annas sent,' not had sent Him.' But then it is admitted, that the
   aorist is occasionally used for the pluperfect. Secondly, it is
   insisted that, according to the better reading, on should be inserted
   after psteilen which Canon Westcott renders: Annas therefore sent Him.'
   But notwithstanding Canon Westcott's high authority, we must repeat the
   critical remark of Meyer, that there are important witnesses' against
   as well as for the insertion of on, while the insertion of other
   particles in other Codd. seems to imply that the insertion here of any
   particle was a later addition. On the other hand, what seem to me two
   irrefragable arguments are in favour of the retrospective application
   of ver. 24. First, the preceding reference to Peter's denial must be
   located in the house of Caiaphas. Secondly, if vv. 19-23 refer to an
   examination by Annas, then St. John has left us absolutely no account
   of anything that had passed before Caiaphas - which, in view of the
   narrative of the Synoptists, would seem incredible.

   [5896] St. John xviii. 19-23.

   [5897] Canon Westcott supposes that the Apostle himself was present in
   the audience chamber. But, although we readily admit that John went
   into the house, and was as near as possible to Christ, many reasons
   suggest themselves why we can scarcely imagine John to have been
   present, when Caiaphas inquired about the disciples and teaching of
   Jesus.

   [5898] St. Luke xxii. 66.

   [5899] St. John xviii. 20.

   [5900] I cannot think that the expression t ksmo to the world,' in ver.
   20 can have any implied reference to the great world in opposition to
   the Jews (as so many interpreters hold). The expression the world' in
   the sense of everybody' is common in every language. And its Rabbinic
   use has been shown on p. 368, Note 3. Christ proves that He had had no
   secret' doctrine, about which He might be questioned, by three facts:
   1. He had spoken parresa without reserve;' 2. He had spoken t ksmo to
   everybody, without confining Himself to a select audience; 3. He had
   taught in the most public places - in Synagogue and in the Temple,
   whither all Jews resorted.

   [5901] So according to the better reading and literally.

   [5902] St. Matt. xxvi. 58; St. Mark xiv. 54; St. Luke xxii, 54, 55.

   [5903] St. John xviii. 15-18.

   [5904] St. John xviii. 15.

   [5905] The circumstance that Josephus (Ant. vii. 2. 1) on the ground of
   2 Sam. iv 6 (LXX.) speaks of a female porter,' and that Rhoda opened
   the door in the house of the widowed mother of John Mark (Acts xii.
   13), does not convince me, that in the Palace of the High-Priest a
   female servant regularly discharged that office.

   [5906] St. Mark xiv. 66.

   [5907] St. Matt. xxvi. 69.

   [5908] The Synoptists.

   [5909] St. John.

   [5910] St. John.

   [5911] St. Matthew.

   [5912] St. Mark.

   [5913] St. Matthew.

   [5914] The expression all the council' must evidently be taken in a
   general, not literal sense. No one would believe, for example, that
   either Nicodemus or Gamaliel was present. I would not, however, attach
   any great importance to this. The reference to the Elders' (in St.
   Matt.) is spurious.

   [5915] This is also the conclusion of the calmest and most impartial
   Jewish historian, my lamented friend, the late Dr. Jost (Gesch. d.
   Judenth. i. pp. 402-409). He designates it a private murder
   (Privat-Mord), committed by burning enemies, not the sentence of a
   regularly constituted Sanhedrin. The most prominent men who represented
   the Law, such as Gamaliel, Jochanan b. Zakkai, and others, were not
   present.' The defence of the proceedings as a right and legal procedure
   by the Sanhedrin, as made by Salvador (Gesch. d. Mos. Instit. [German
   Transl.] vol. ii. pp. 67-79) is, from the critical point of view, so
   unsatisfactory, that I can only wonder the learned Saalschütz should,
   even under the influence of Jewish prejudice, have extended to it his
   protection (Mos. Recht, pp. 623-626). At the same time, the refutation
   of Salvador by M. Dupin (reproduced as App. to vol. iii. of the German
   translation of Salvador) is as superficial as the original attack.
   Cohen's Les Déicides' is a mere party-book which deserves not serious
   consideration. Grätz (Gesch. d. Juden, iii. p. 244) evades the
   question.

   [5916] In Sanh. i. 6, the reasons for the various numbers are given;
   but we can scarcely regard them as historical.

   [5917] Various modern writers have of late denied the existence of
   tribunals of three. But the whole weight of evidence is against them. A
   number of passages might here be quoted, but the reader may be
   generally referred to the treatment of the subject in Selden, de
   Synedriis, ii. c. 5, and especially to Maimonides, Hilkh. Sanh.

   [5918] In the case of a Mumcheh or admitted authority, even one Judge
   could in certain civil cases pronounce sentence (Sanh. 2 b; 3 a).

   [5919] In Jerusalem there were said to have been two such tribunals;
   one whose locale was at the entrance to the Temple-Court, the other at
   that to the inner or Priest-Court.

   [5920] It is a mistake to identify these with the four shops on the
   Mount of Olives. They were the Temple-shops previously described.

   [5921] Sanh. 2 a; Maim. Sanh. iv. 1-3.

   [5922] Sanh. 2 a; 15 b.

   [5923] Sanh. 88 b; Maim. u. s. ch. ii. 7, 8.

   [5924] 1 Tim. iii.; Tit. i.

   [5925] Tit. i. 5.

   [5926] Kuene, and after him Schürer (Neutest. Zeitgesch.) have denied
   the existence of this arrangement, but, as I think, on quite
   insufficient grounds. They have been answered by D. Hoffmann (see the
   very able ed. of the Pirqé Abhoth, by that learned and accurate
   scholar, Prof. Strack of Berlin, p. 9, notes). Comp. also Levy,
   Neuhebr. Worterb., s. v. Schürer has to account for other passages
   besides those which he quotes (p. 413) - notably for the very clear
   statement in Chag. ii. 2.

   [5927] Bemidb. R. 1.

   [5928] Kidd, 40 a.

   [5929] Ab Zar. 8 b.

   [5930] There is truly not a tittle of evidence for the assumption of
   commentators, that Christ was led from the Palace of Caiaphas into the
   Council-Chamber. The whole proceedings took place in the former, and
   from it Christ was brought to Pilate (St. John xviii. 28).

   [5931] Shabb. 9 b

   [5932] The ordinary Court-hours were from after morning-service till
   the time of the meal (Sabb. 10 a).

   [5933] Sanh. 32 a.

   [5934] Bets. 36.

   [5935] Baba K. 113 a.

   [5936] In civil cases at least no process was carried on in the months
   of Nisan and Tishri (comp. Bloch, Civil Process-Ordnung).

   [5937] Sanh. xi. 4; Tos. Sanh. xi. 6.

   [5938] The details on these points are given in most commentaries.
   (Comp. the Tractate Sanhedrin and the Gemara on it.) In a capital cause
   not only would the formal and very solemn warning charge against false
   testimony have been addressed to the witnesses, but the latter would be
   tested by the threefold process known as Chaqiroth, Derishoth, and
   Bediqoth; the former two referring to questions on the main points, the
   third or secondary points in the evidence.

   [5939] St. Matt. xxvi. 66.

   [5940] St. Mark xiv. 64: condemned Him to be worthy of death.'

   [5941] St. John xviii.29, 30.

   [5942] St. Luke xxiii. 2; St. Matt. xxvii. 12.

   [5943] St. John xviii. 31.

   [5944] The Pharisaic Law of witness was very peculiar. Witnesses who
   contradicted each other were not considered in Rabbinic Law as false
   witnesses, in the sense of being punishable. Nor would they be so, even
   if an alibi of the accused were proved - only if the alibi of the
   witnesses themselves were proved (comp. Bähr, Gesetz u. Falsche Zeug.,
   pp. 29, &c.). Thus the Story of Susanna' is bad in Jewish Law, unless,
   as Geiger supposes, it embodies an earlier mode of procedure in Jewish
   criminal jurisprudence.

   [5945] St. John ii. 18, 19.

   [5946] Critically also this is of interest. The first Purgation of the
   Temple is not related by the Synoptists, but they here confirm St.
   John's account of it. On the other hand, St. John's account of the
   Temple purgation confirms that of the Temple-purgation which St. John
   does not relate. And the evidence is the stronger, that the two sets of
   accounts are manifestly independent of each other, and that of the
   Fourth Gospel younger than that of the Synoptists.

   [5947] St. Mark.

   [5948] St. Matt.

   [5949] At the same time neither this, nor even the later charge of
   blasphemy,' would have made Jesus what was technically called either a
   Massith, or a Maddiach. The former is described as an individual who
   privately seduces private individuals into idolatry (Sanh. vii. 10;
   Jer. Yeb. 15 d), it being added that he speaks with a loud voice (in
   praise of some false god) and uses the Holy (Hebr.) language (Jer.
   Sanh. 25 d). On the other hand, the Maddiach is one who publicly
   seduces the people to idolatry, using, as it is added, the language
   spoken commonly by the people. The two Talmudic stories, that witnesses
   had lain in wait to hear and report the utterances of Christ (Sanh. 67
   a), and that forty days before His execution heralds had summoned any
   exculpatory evidence in His favour (Sanh. 43 a), may be dismissed
   without comment.

   [5950] Besides other movements, we refer here specially to that under
   Theudas, who led out some 400 persons under promise of dividing Jordan,
   when both he and his adherents were cut down by the Romans (Jos. Ant.
   xx. 5. 1). At a later time an Egyptian Jew gathered 3,000 or 4,000 on
   the Mount of Olives, promising to cast down the walls of Jerusalem by
   the breath of his mouth (u. s. xx. 8, 6). Another impostor of that kind
   was Simon of Cyprus (u. s. xx. 7. 2), and, of course, Bar Kokhabh.

   [5951] Deut. xvii. 6.

   [5952] Rosh haSh. ii. 6.

   [5953] It seems, to say the least, strange to explain the expression
   led Him into their sundrion' as referring to the regular
   Council-chamber (St. Luke xxii. 66).

   [5954] At the same time I confess myself in no way anxious about an
   accord of details and circumstances. When, admittedly the facts
   entirely agree - nay, in such case, the accord of facts would be only
   the more striking.

   [5955] St. Matt. xxii. 41-46.

   [5956] St. Luke xxii. 67, 68; the clause nor let Me go' is spurious.

   [5957] Sanh. vii. 5 Moed K. 26 a.

   [5958] Other designations for it are Chillul haShem, and,
   euphemistically, Birkhath haShem.

   [5959] But this does not seem to me to have been the actual sentence.
   In regard to the latter, see the formalities detailed in Sanh. iii. 7.

   [5960] {hebrew}

   [5961] Tanchuma Piqqudey, ed. Warsh. i. p. 132 b.

   [5962] Sanch. iii. 7.

   [5963] The President of the Judges said: "Such an one, thou ... art
   guilty"' (Sanh. iii. 7).

   [5964] Jer. Yoma 44 c.

   [5965] Have we advanced much beyond this, when the Parisian democracy
   can inscribe on its banners such words as Ecrasez l'Infâme' - and,
   horrible to relate it, teach its little children to bring to this its
   floral offerings?

   [5966] Keth 37 b, top.

   [5967] St. Luke.

   [5968] There is not any indication in the text that, as Commentators
   suppose, Christ was at that moment led bound across the Court; nor,
   indeed, that till the morning He was at all removed from near the place
   where He had been examined.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XIV.
THE MORNING OF GOOD FRIDAY.

   (St. Matt. xxvii. 1, 2, 11-14; St. Mark xv. i-5; St. Luke xxiii. 1-5;
   St. John xviii. 28-38; St. Luke xxiii. 6-12; St. Matt. xxvii. 3-10; St.
   Matt. xxvii. 15-18; St. Mark St. Matt. xxvii. 20-31;; St. Mark xv.
   11-20; St. Luke xxiii. 18-25; St. John St. Matt. xxvii. 20-31; St. Mark
   xv. 11-20; St. Luke xxiii. 18-25; St. John xix.1-16.)

   The pale grey light had passed into that of early morning, when the
   Sanhedrists once more assembled in the Palace of Caiaphas. [5969] A
   comparison with the terms in which they who had formed the gathering of
   the previous night are described will convey the impression, that the
   number of those present was now increased, and that they who now came
   belonged to the wisest and most influential of the Council. It is not
   unreasonable to suppose, that some who would not take part in
   deliberations which were virtually a judicial murder might, once the
   resolution was taken, feel in Jewish casuitry absolved from guilt in
   advising how the informal sentence might best be carried into effect.
   It was this, and not the question of Christ's guilt, which formed the
   subject of deliberation on that early morning. The result of it was to
   bind' Jesus and hand Him over as a malefactor to Pilate, with the
   resolve, if possible, not to frame any definite charge; [5970] but, if
   this became necessary, to lay all the emphasis on the purely political,
   not the religious aspect of the claims of Jesus. [5971] [5972]

   To us it may seem strange, that they who, in the lowest view of it, had
   committed so grossly unrighteous, and were now coming on so cruel and
   bloody a deed, should have been prevented by religious scruples from
   entering the Prætorium.' And yet the student of Jewish casuistry will
   understand it; nay, alas, history and even common observation furnish
   only too many parallel instances of unscrupulous scrupulosity and
   unrighteous conscientiousness. Alike conscience and religiousness are
   only moral tendencies natural to man; whither they tend, must be
   decided by considerations outside of them: by enlightenment and truth.
   [5973] The Prætorium,' to which the Jewish leaders, or at least those
   of them who represented the leaders - for neither Annas nor Caiaphas
   seems to have been personally present - brought the bound Christ, was
   (as always in the provinces) the quarters occupied by the Roman
   Governor. In Cæsarea this was the Palace of Herod, and there St. Paul
   was afterwards a prisoner. But in Jerusalem there were two such
   quarters: the fortress Antonia, and the magnificent Palace of Herod at
   the north-western angle of the Upper City. Although it is impossible to
   speak with certainty, the balance of probability is entirely in favour
   of the view that, when Pilate was in Jerusalem with his wife, he
   occupied the truly royal abode of Herod, and not the fortified barracks
   of Antonia. [5974] From the slope at the eastern angle, opposite the
   Temple-Mount, where the Palace of Caiaphas stood, up the narrow streets
   of the Upper City, the melancholy procession wound to the portals of
   the grand Palace of Herod. It is recorded, that they who brought Him
   would not themselves enter the portals of the Palace, that they might
   not be defiled, but might eat the Passover.'

   Few expressions have given rise to more earnest controversy than this.
   On two things at least we can speak with certainty. Entrance into a
   heathen house did Levitically render impure for that day - that is,
   till the evening. [5975] The fact of such defilement is clearly
   attested both in the New Testament [5976] and in the Mishnah, though
   its reasons might be various. [5977] A person who had so become
   Levitically unclean was technically called Tebhul Yom (bathed of the
   day'). The other point is, that, to have so become impure' for the day,
   would not have disqualified for eating the Paschal Lamb, since the meal
   was partaken of after the evening, and when a new day had begun. In
   fact, it is distinctly laid down [5978] that the bathed of the day,'
   that is, he who had been impure for the day and had bathed in the
   evening, did partake of the Paschal Supper, and an instance is related,
   [5979] when some soldiers who had guarded the gates of Jerusalem
   immersed,' and ate the Paschal Lamb. It follows that those Sanhedrists
   could not have abstained from entering the Palace of Pilate because by
   so doing they would have been disqualified for the Paschal Supper.

   The point is of importance, because many writers have interpreted the
   expression the Passover' as referring to the Paschal Supper, and have
   argued that, according to the Fourth Gospel, our Lord did not on the
   previous evening partake of the Paschal Lamb, or else that in this
   respect the account of the Fourth Gospel does not accord with that of
   the Synoptists. But as, for the reason just stated, it is impossible to
   refer the expression Passover' to the Paschal Supper, we have only to
   inquire whether the term is not also applied to other offerings. And
   here both the Old Testament [5980] and Jewish writings [5981] show,
   that the term Pesach, or Passover,' was applied not only to the Paschal
   Lamb, but to all the Passover sacrifices, especailly to what was called
   the Chagigah, or festive offering (from Chag, or Chagag, to bring the
   festive sacrifice usual at each of the three Great Feasts). According
   to the express rule (Chag. i. 3) the Chagigah was brought on the first
   festive Paschal Day. [5982] It was offered immediately after the
   morning-service, and eaten on that day - probably some time before the
   evening, when, as we shall by-and-by see, another ceremony claimed
   public attention. We can therefore quite understand that, not on the
   eve of the Passover but on the first Paschal day, the Sanhedrists would
   avoid incurring a defilement which, lasting till the evening, would not
   only have involved them in the inconvenience of Levitical defilement on
   the first festive day, but have actually prevented their offering on
   that day the Passover, festive sacrifice, or Chagigah. For, we have
   these two express rules: that a person could not in Levitical
   defilement offer the Chagigah; and that the Chagigah could not be
   offered for a person by some one else who took his place (Jer. Chag. 76
   a, lines 16 to 14 from bottom). These considerations and canons seem
   decisive as regards the views above expressed. There would have been no
   reason to fear defilement' on the morning of the Paschal Scrafice; but
   entrance into the Prætorium on the morning of the first Passover-day
   would have rendered it impossible for them to offer the Chagigah, which
   is also designated by the term Pesach.

   It may have been about seven in the morning, probably even earlier,
   [5983] when Pilate went out to those who summoned him to dispense
   justice. The question which he addressed to them seems to have startled
   and disconcerted them. Their procedure had been private; it was of the
   very essence of proceedings at Roman Law that they were in public.
   Again, the procedure before the Sanhedrists had been in the form of a
   criminal investigation, while it was of the essence of Roman procedure
   to enter only on definite accusations. [5984] Accordingly, the first
   question of Pilate was, what accusation they brought against Jesus. The
   question would come upon them the more unexpectedly, that Pilate must,
   on the previous evening, have given his consent to the employment of
   the Roman guard which effected the arrest of Jesus. Their answer
   displays humiliation, ill-humour, and an atempt at evasion. If He had
   not been a malefactor,' they would not have delivered' [5985] Him up!
   On this vague charge Pilate, in whom we mark throughout a strange
   reluctance to proceed - perhaps from unwillingness to please the Jews,
   perhaps from a desire to wound their feelings on the tenderest point,
   perhaps because restrained by a Higher Hand - refused to proceed. He
   proposed that the Sanhedrists should try Jesus according to the Jewish
   Law. This is another important trait, as apparently implying that
   Pilate had been previously aware both of the peculiar claims of Jesus,
   and that the action of the Jewish authorities had been determined by
   envy.' [5986] But, under ordinary circumstances, Pilate would not have
   wished to hand over a person accused of so grave a charge as that of
   setting up Messianic claims to the Jewish authorities, to try the case
   as a merely religious question. [5987] Taking this in connection with
   the other fact, apparently inconsistent with it, that on the previous
   evening the Governor had given a Roman guard for the arrest of the
   prisoner, and with this other fact of the dream and warning of Pilate's
   wife, a peculiar impression is conveyed to us. We can understand it
   all, if, on the previous evening, after the Roman guard had been
   granted, Pilate had spoken of it to his wife, whether because he knew
   her to be, or because she might be interested in the matter. Tradition
   has given her the name Procula; [5988] while an Apocryphal Gospel
   describes her as a convert to Judaism; [5989] while the Greek Church
   has actually placed her in the Catalogue of Saints. What if the truth
   lay between these statements, and Procula had not only been a
   proselyte, like the wife of a previous Roman Governor, [5990] but known
   about Jesus and spoken of Him to Pilate on that evening? This would
   best explain his relutance to condemn Jesus, as well as her dream of
   Him.

   As the Jewish authorities had to decline the Governor's offer to
   proceed against Jesus before their own tribunal, on the avowed ground
   that they had not power to pronounce capital sentence, [5991] it now
   behoved them to formulat a capital charge. This is recorded by St. Luke
   alone. [5992] It was, that Jesus had said, He Himself was Christ a
   King. It will be noted, that in so saying they falsely imputed to Jesus
   their own political expectations concerning the Messiah. But even this
   is not all. They prefaced it by this, that He perverted the nation and
   forbade to give tirbute to Cæsar. The latter charge was so grossly
   unfounded, that we can only regard it as in their mind a necessary
   inference from the premiss that He claimed to be King. And, as telling
   most against Him, they put this first and foremost, treating the
   inference as if it were a fact - a practice this only too common in
   controversies, political, religious, or private.

   This charge of the Sanhedrists explains what, according to all the
   Evangelists, passed within the Prætorium. We presume that Christ was
   within, probably in charge of some guards. The words of the Sanhedrists
   brought peculiar thoughts of Pilate. He now called Jesus and asked Him:
   Thou art the King of the Jews?' There is that mixture of contempt for
   all that was Jewish, and of that general cynicism which could not
   believe in the existence of anything higher, we mark a feeling of awe
   in regard to Christ, even though the feeling may partly have been of
   superstition. Out of all that the Sanhedrists had said, Pilate took
   only this, that Jesus claimed to be a King. Christ, Who had not heard
   the charge of His accusers, now ignored it, in His desire to stretch
   out salvation even to a Pilate. Not heeding the implied irony, He first
   put it to Pilate, whether the question - be it criminal charge or
   inquiry - was his own, or merely the repeitition of what His Jewish
   accusers had told Pilate of Him. The Governor quickly disowned any
   personal inquiry. How could he raise any such question? he was not a
   Jew, and the subject had no general interest. Jesus' own nation and its
   leader had handed Him over as a criminal: what had He done?

   The answer of Pilate left nothing else for Him Who, even in that
   supreme hour, thought only of others, not of Himself. but to bring
   before the Roman directly that truth for which his words had given the
   opening. It was not, as Pilate had implied, a Jewish question: it was
   one of absolute truth; it concerned all men. The Kingdom of Christ was
   not of this world at all, either Jewish or Gentile. Had it been
   otherwise, He would have led His followers to a contest for His claims
   and aims, and not have become a prisoner of the Jews. One word only in
   all this struck Pilate. So then a King art Thou!' He was incapable of
   apprehending the higher thought and truth. We mark in his words the
   same mixture of scoffing and misgiving. Pilate was now in no doubt as
   to the nature of the Kingdom; his exclamation and question applied to
   the Kingship. That fact Christ would now emphasise in the glory of His
   Humiliation. He accepted what Pilate said; He adopted his words. But He
   added to them an appeal, or rather an explanation of His claims, such
   as a heathen, and a Pilate, could understand. His Kingdom was not of
   this world, but of that other world which He had come to reveal, and to
   open to all believers. Here was the truth! His Birth or Incarnation, as
   the Sent of the Father, and His own voluntary Coming into this world -
   for both are referred to in His words [5993] - had it for their object
   to testify of the truth concerning that other world, of which was His
   Kingdom. This was no Jewish-Messianic Kingdom, but one that appealed to
   all men. And all who had moral affinity to the truth' would listen to
   His testimony, and so come to own Him as King.'

   But these words struck only a hollow void, as they fell on Pilate. It
   was not merely cynicism, but utter despair of all that is higher - a
   moral suicide - which appears in his question: What is truth?' He had
   understood Christ, but it was not in him to respond to His appeal. He,
   whose heart and life had so little kinship to the truth,' could not
   sympathise with, though he dimly perceived, the grand aim of Jesus'
   Life and Work. But even the question of Pilate seems an admission, an
   implied homage to Christ. Assuredly, he would not have so opened his
   inner being to one of the priestly accusers of Jesus.

   That man was no rebel, no criminal! They who brought Him were moved by
   the lowest passions. And so he told them, as he went out, that he found
   no fault in Him. Then came from the assembled Sanhedrists a perfect
   hailstorm of accusations. As we picture it to ourselves, all this while
   the Christ stood near, perhaps behind Pilate, just within the portals
   of the Prætorium. And to all this clamour of charges He made no reply.
   It was as if the surging of the wild waves broke far beneath against
   the base of the rock, which, untouched, reared its head far aloft to
   the heavens. But as He stood in the calm silence of Majesty, Pilate
   greatly wondered. Did this Man not even fear death; was He so conscious
   of innocence, so infinitely superior to those around and against Him,
   or had He so far conquered Death, that He would not condescend to their
   words? And why then had He spoken to him of His Kingdom and of that
   truth?

   Fain would he have withdrawn from it all; not that he was moved for
   absolute truth or by the personal innocence of the Sufferer, but that
   there was that in the Christ which, perhaps for the first time in his
   life, had made him reluctant to be unrighteous and unjust. And so,
   when, amidst these confused cries, he caught the name Galilee as the
   scene of Jesus' labours, he gladly seized on what offered the prospect
   of devolving the responsibility on another. Jesus was a Galilean, and
   therefore belonged to the jurisdiction of King Herod. To Herod,
   therefore, who had come for the Feast to Jerusalem, and there occupied
   the old Maccabean Palace, close to that of the High-Priest, Jesus was
   now sent. [5994] [5995]

   To St. Luke alone we owe the account of what passed there, as, indeed,
   of so many traits in this last scene of the terrible drama. [5996] The
   opportunity now offered was welcome to Herod. It was a mark of
   reconciliation (or might be viewed as such) between himself and the
   Roman, and in a manner flattering to himself, since the first step had
   been taken by the Governor, and that, by an almost ostentatious
   acknowledgement of the rights of the Tetrarch, on which possibly their
   former feud may have turned. Besides, Herod had long wished to see
   Jesus, of Whom he had heard so many things. [5997] In that hour coarse
   curiosity, a hope of seeing some magic performances, was the only
   feeling that moved the Tetrarch. But in vain did he ply Christ with
   questions. He was as silent to him as formerly against the virulent
   charges of the Sanhedrists. But a Christ Who would or could do no
   signs, nor even kindle into the same denunciations as the Baptist, was,
   to the coarse realism of Antipas, only a helpless figure that might be
   insulted and scoffed at, as did the Tetrarch and his men of war. [5998]
   And so Jesus was once more sent back to the Prætorium.

   It is in the interval during which Jesus was before Herod, or probably
   soon afterwards, that we place the last weird scene in the life of
   Judas, recorded by St. Matthew. [5999] We infer this from the
   circumstance, that, on the return of Jesus from Herod, the Sanhedrists
   do not seem to have been present, since Pilate had to call them
   together, [6000] presumably from the Temple. And here we recall that
   the Temple was close to the Maccabean Palace. Lastly, the impression
   left on our minds is, that henceforth the principal part before Pilate
   was sustained by the people,' the Priests and Scribes rather
   instigating them than conducting the case against Jesus. It may
   therefore well have been, that, when the Sanhedrists went from the
   Maccabean Palace into the Temple, as might be expected on that day,
   only a part of them returned to the Prætorium on the summons of Pilate.

   But, however that may have been, sufficient had already passed to
   convince Judas what the end would be. Indeed, it is difficult to
   believe that he could have deceived himself on this point from the
   first, however he had failed to realise the fact in its terrible import
   till after his deed. The words which Jesus had spoken to him in the
   Garden must have burnt into his soul. He was among the soldiery that
   fell back at His look. Since then Jesus had been led bound to Annas, to
   Caiaphas, to the Prætorium, to Herod. Even if Judas had not been
   present at any of these occasions, and we do not suppose that his
   conscience had allowed this, all Jerusalem must by that time have been
   full of the report, probably in even exaggerated form. One thing he
   saw: that Jesus was condemned. Judas did not repent' in the Scriptural
   sense; but a change of mind and feeling' came over him. [6001] Even had
   Jesus been an ordinary man, and the relation to Him of Judas been the
   ordinary one, we could understand his feelings, especially considering
   his ardent temperament. The instant before and after sin represents the
   difference of feeling as portrayed in the history of the Fall of our
   first parents. With the commission of sin, all the bewitching,
   intoxicating influence, which incited to it, has passed away, and only
   the naked fact remains. All the glamour has been dispelled; all the
   reality abideth. If we knew it, probably scarcely one out of many
   criminals but would give all he has, nay, life itself, if he could
   recall the deed done, or awake from it to find it only an evil dream.
   But it cannot be; and the increasingly terrible is, that it is done,
   and done for ever. Yet this is not repentance,' or, at least, God alone
   knows whether it is such; it may be, and in the case of Judas it only
   was, change of mind and feeling' towards Jesus. Whether this might have
   passed into repentance, whether, if he had cast himself at the Feet of
   Jesus, as undoubtedly he might have done, this would have been so, we
   need not here ask. The mind and feelings of Judas, as regarded the deed
   he had done, and as regarded Jesus, were now quite other; they became
   increasingly so with ever-growing intensity. The road, the streets, the
   people's faces - all seemed now to bear witness against him and for
   Jesus. He read it everywhere; he felt it always; he imagined it, till
   his whole being was on flame. What had been; what was; what would be!
   Heaven and earth receded from him; there were voices in the air, and
   pangs in the soul - and no escape, help, counsel, or hope anywhere.

   It was despair, and his a desperate resolve. He must get rid of these
   thirty pieces of silver, which, like thirty serpents, coiled round his
   soul with terrible hissing of death. Then at least his deed would have
   nothing of the selfish in it: only a terrible error, a mistake, to
   which he had been incited by these Sanhedrists. Back to them with the
   money, and let them have it again! And so forward he pressed amidst the
   wondering crowd, which would give way before that haggard face with the
   wild eyes, that crime had made old in those few hours, till he came
   upon that knot of priests and Sanhedrists, perhaps at that very moment
   speaking of it all. A most unwelcome sight and intrusion on them, this
   necessary but odious figure in the drama - belonging to its past, and
   who should rest in its obscurity. But he would be heard; nay, his words
   would cast the burden on them to share it with him, as with hoarse cry
   he broke into this: I have sinned - in that I have betrayed - innocent
   blood!' They turned from him with impatience, in contempt, as so often
   the seducer turns from the seduced - and, God help such, with the same
   fiendish guilt of hell: What is that to us? See thou to it!' And
   presently they were again deep in conversation or consultation. For a
   moment he stared wildly before him, the very thirty pieces of silver
   that had been weighed to him, and which he had now brought back, and
   would fain have given them, still clutched in his hand. For a moment
   only, and then he wildly rushed forward, towards the Sanctuary itself,
   [6002] probably to where the Court of Israel bounded on that of the
   Priests, where generally the penitents stood in waiting, while in the
   Priests' Court the sacrifice was offered for them. He bent forward, and
   with all his might hurled from him [6003] those thirty pieces of
   silver, so that each resounded as it fell on the marble pavement.

   Out he rushed from the Temple, out of Jerusalem, into solitude.' [6004]
   Whither shall it be? Down into the horrible solitude of the Valley of
   Hinnom, the Tophet' of old, with its ghastly memories, the Gehenna of
   the future, with its ghostly associations. But it was not solitude, for
   it seemed now peopled with figures, faces, sounds. Across the Valley,
   and up the steep sides of the mountain! We are now on the potter's
   field' of Jeremiah - somewhat to the west above where the Kidron and
   Hinnom valleys merge. It is cold, soft clayey soil, where the footsteps
   slip, or are held in clammy bonds. Here jagged rocks rise
   perpendicularly: perhaps there was some gnarled, bent, stunted tree.
   [6005] Up there climbed to the top of that rock. Now slowly and
   deliberately he unwound the long girdle that held his garment. It was
   the girdle in which he had carried those thirty pieces of silver. He
   was now quite calm and collected. With that girdle he will hang himself
   [6006] on that tree close by, and when he has fastened it, he will
   throw himself off from that jagged rock.

   It is done; but as, unconscious, not yet dead perhaps, he swung heavily
   on that branch, under the unwonted burden the girdle gave way, or
   perhaps the knot, which his trembling hands had made, unloosed, and he
   fell heavily forward among the jagged rocks beneath, and perished in
   the manner of which St. Peter reminded his fellow-disciples in the days
   before Pentecost. [6007] [6008] But in the Temple the priests knew not
   what to do with these thirty pieces of money. Thier unscrupulous
   scrupulosity came again upon them. It was not lawful to take into the
   Temple-treasury, for the purchase of sacred things, money that had been
   unlawfully gained. In such cases the Jewish Law provided that the money
   was to be restored to the donor, and, if he insisted on giving it, that
   he should be induced to spend it for something for the public weal.
   This explains the apparent discrepancy between the accounts in the Book
   of Acts and by St. Matthew. By a fiction of law the money was still
   considered to be Judas',  and to have been applied by him [6009] in the
   purchase of the well-known potter's field,' for the charitable purpose
   of burying in it strangers. [6010] But from henceforth the old name of
   potter's field,' became popularly changed into that of field of blood'
   (Haqal Dema). And yet it was the act of Israel through its leaders:
   they took the thirty pieces of silver - the price of him that was
   valued, whom they of the children of Israel did value, and gave them
   for the potter's field!' It was all theirs, though they would have fain
   made it all Judas': the valuing, the selling, and the purchasing. And
   the potter's field' - the very spot on which Jeremiah had been Divinely
   directed to prophesy against Jerusalem and against Israel: [6011] how
   was it now all fulfilled in the light of the completed sin and apostasy
   of the people, as prophetically described by Zechariah! This Tophet of
   Jeremiah, now that they had valued and sold at thirty shekel Israel's
   Messiah-Shepherd - truly a Tophet, and become a field of blood! Surely,
   not an accidental coincidence this, that it should be the place of
   Jeremy's announcement of judgment: not accidental, but veritably a
   fulfilment of his prophecy! And so St. Matthew, targuming this prophecy
   in form [6012] as in its spirit, and in true Jewish manner stringing to
   it the prophectic description furnished by Zechariah, sets the event
   before us as the fulfilment of Jeremy's prophecy. [6013]

   We are once more outside the Prætorium, to which Pilate had summoned
   from the Temple Sanhedrists and people. The crowd was momentarily
   increasing from the town. [6014] It was not only to see what was about
   to happen, but to witness another spectacle, that of the release of a
   prisoner. For it seems to have been the custom, that at the Passover
   [6015] the Roman Governor released to the Jewish populace some
   notorious prisoner who lay condemned to death. A very significant
   custom of release this, for which they now began to clamour. It may
   have been, that to this also they were incited by the Sanhedrist who
   mingled among them. For if the stream of popular sympathy might be
   diverted to Bar-Abbas, the doom of Jesus would be the more securely
   fixed. On the present occasion it might be the more easy to influence
   the people, since Bar-Abbas belonged to that class, not uncommon at the
   time, which, under the colourable pretence of political aspirations,
   committed robbery and other crimes. But these movements had deeply
   struck root in popular sympathy. A strange name and figure, Bar-Abbas.
   That could scarcely have been his real name. It means Son of the
   Father.' [6016] Was he a political Anti-Christ? And why, if there had
   not been some conjunction between them, should Pilate have proposed the
   alternative of Jesus or Bar-Abbas, and not rather that of one of the
   two malefactors who were actually crucified with Jesus?

   But when the Governor, hoping to enlist some popular sympathy, put this
   alternative to them - nay, urged it, on the ground that neither he nor
   yet Herod had found any crime in Him, and would even have appeased
   their thirst for vengeance by offering to submit Jesus to the cruel
   punishment of scourging, it was in vain. It was now that Pilate sat
   down on the judgment seat.' But ere he could proceed, came that message
   from his wife about her dream, and the warning entreaty to have nothing
   to do with that righteous man.' An omen such as a dream, and an appeal
   connected with it, especially in the circumstances of that trial, would
   powerfully impress a Roman. And for a few moments it seemed as if the
   appeal to popular feeling on behalf of Jesus might have been
   successful. [6017] But once more the Sanhedrists prevailed. Apparently,
   all who had been followers of Jesus had been scattered. None of them
   seem to have been there; and if one or another feeble voice might have
   been raised for Him, it was hushed in fear of the Sanhedrists. It was
   Bar-Abbas for whom, incited by the priesthood, the populace now
   clamoured with increasing vehemence. To the question - half bitter,
   half mocking - what they wished him to do with Him Whom their own
   leaders had in their accusation called King of the Jews,' surged back,
   louder and louder, the terrible cry: Crucify him!' That such a cry
   should have been raised, and raised by Jews, and before the Roman, and
   against Jesus, are in themselves almost inconceivable facts, to which
   the history of these eighteen centuries has made terrible echo. In vain
   Pilate expostulated, reasoned, appealed. Popular frenzy only grew as it
   was opposed.

   All reasoning having failed, Pilate had recourse to one more expedient,
   which, under ordinary circumstances, would have been effective. [6018]
   When a Judge, after having declared the innocence of the accused,
   actually rises from the judgment-seat, and by a symbolic act pronounces
   the execution of the accused a judicial murder, from all participation
   in which he wishes solemnly to clear himself, surely no jury would
   persist in demanding sentence of death. But in the present instance
   there was even more. Although we find allusions to some such custom
   among the heathen, [6019] that which here took place was an essentially
   Jewish rite, which must have appealed the more forcibly to the Jews
   that it was done by Pilate. And, not only the rite, but the very words
   were Jewish. [6020] They recall not merely the rite prescribed in Deut.
   xxi. 6, &c., to mark the freedom from guilt of the elders of a city
   where untracked murder had been committed, but the very words of such
   Old Testament expressions as in 2 Sam. iii. 28, and Ps. xxvi. 6,
   lxxiii. 13, [6021] and, in later times, in Sus. ver. 46. The Mishnah
   bears witness that this rite was continued. [6022] As administering
   justice in Israel, Pilate must have been aware of this rite. [6023] It
   does not affect the question, whether or not a judge could, especially
   in the circumstances recorded, free himself from guilt. Certainly, he
   could not; but such conduct on the part of a Pilate appears so utterly
   unusual, as, indeed, his whole bearing towards Christ, that we can only
   account for it by the deep impression which Jesus had made upon him.
   All the more terrible would be the guilt of Jewish resistance. There is
   something overawing in Pilate's, See ye to it' - a reply to the
   Sanhedrists' See thou to it,' to Judas, and in the same words. It
   almost seems, as if the scene of mutual imputation of guilt in the
   Garden of Eden were being reenacted. The Mishnah tells us, that, after
   the solemn washing of hands of the elders and their disclaimer of
   guilt, priest responded with this prayer: Forgive it to Thy people
   Israel, whom Thou hast redeemed, O Lord, and lay not innocent blood
   upon Thy people Israel!' But here, in answer to Pilate's words, came
   back that deep, hoarse cry: His Blood be upon us,' and - God help us! -
   on our children!' Some thirty years later, and on that very spot, was
   judgment pronounced against some of the best in Jerusalem; and among
   the 3,600 victims of the Governor's fury, of whom not a few were
   scourged and crucified right over against the Prætorium, were many of
   the noblest of the citizens of Jerusalem. [6024] A few years more, and
   hundreds of crosses bore Jewish mangled bodies within sight of
   Jerusalem. And still have these wanderers seemed to bear, from century
   to century, and from land to land, that burden of blood; and still does
   it seem to weigh on us and our children.'

   The Evangelists have passed as rapidly as possible over the last scenes
   of indignity and horror, and we are too thankful to follow their
   example. Bar-Abbas was at once released. Jesus was handed over to the
   soldiery to be scourged and crucified, although final and formal
   judgment had not yet been pronounced. [6025] Indeed, Pilate seems to
   have hoped that the horrors of the scourging might still move the
   people to desist from the ferocious cry for the Cross. [6026] For the
   same reason we may also hope, that the scourging was not inflicted with
   the same ferocity as in the case of Christian martyrs, when, with the
   object of eliciting the incrimination of others, or else recantation,
   the scourge of leather thongs was loaded with lead, or armed with
   spikes and bones, which lacerated back, and chest, and face, till the
   victim sometimes fell down before the judge a bleeding mass of torn
   flesh. But, however modified, and without repeating the harrowing
   realism of a Cicero, scourging was the terrible introduction to
   crucifixion - the intermediate death.' Stripped of His clothes, His
   hands tied and back bent, the Victim would be bound to a column or
   stake, in front of the Prætorium. The scourging ended, the soldiery
   would hastily cast upon Him His upper garments, and lead Him back into
   the Prætorium. Here they called the whole cohort together, and the
   silent, faint Sufferer became the object of their ribald jesting. From
   His bleeding Body they tore the clothes, and in mockery arrayed Him in
   scarlet or purple. [6027] For crown they wound together thorns, and for
   sceptre they placed in His Hand a reed. Then alternately, in mock
   proclamation they hailed Him King, or worshipped Him as God, and smote
   Him or heaped on Him other indignities. [6028]

   Such a spectacle might well have disarmed enmity, and for ever allayed
   worldly fears. And so Pilate had hoped, when, at his bidding, Jesus
   came forth from the Prætorium, arrayed as a mock-king, and the Governor
   presented Him to the populace in words which the Church has ever since
   treasured: Behold the Man!' But, so far from appeasing, the sight only
   incited to fury the chief priests' and their subordinates. This Man
   before them was the occasion, that on this Paschal Day a heathen dared
   in Jerusalem itself insult their deepest feeling, mock their most
   cherished Messianic hopes! Crucify!' Crucify!' resounded from all
   sides. Once more Pilate appealed to them, when, unwittingly and
   unwillingly, it elicited this from the people, that Jesus had claimed
   to be the Son of God.

   If nothing else, what light it casts on the mode in which Jesus had
   borne Himself amidst those tortures and insults, that this statement of
   the Jews filled Pilate with fear, and led him to seek again converse
   with Jesus within the Prætorium. The impression which had been made at
   the first, and been deepened all along, had now passed into the terror
   of superstition. His first question to Jesus was, whence He was? And
   when, as was most fitting - since he could not have understood it -
   Jesus returned no answer, the feelings of the Romans became only the
   more intense. Would he not speak; did He not know that he had absolute
   power to release or to crucify' Him? [6029] Nay, not absolute power -
   all power came from above; but the guilt in the abuse of power was far
   greater on the part of apostate Israel and its leaders, who knew whence
   power came, and to Whom they were responsible for its exercise.

   So spake not an impostor; so spake not an ordinary man - after such
   sufferings and in such circumstances - to one who, whencesoever
   derived, had the power of life or death over Him. And Pilate felt it -
   the more keenly, for his cynicism and disbelief of all that was higher.
   And the more earnestly did he now seek to release Him. But,
   proportionately, the louder and fiercer was the cry of the Jews for His
   Blood, till they threatened to implicate in the charge of rebellion
   against Cæsar the Governor himself, if he persisted in unwonted mercy.

   Such danger a Pilate would never encounter. He sat down once more in
   the judgment-seat, outside the Prætorium, in the place called
   Pavement,' and, from its outlook over the City, Gabbatha,' [6030] the
   rounded height.' So solemn is the transaction that the Evangelist
   pauses to note once more the day - nay, the very hour, when the process
   had commenced. It had been the Friday in Passover-week, [6031] and
   between six and seven of the morning. [6032] And at the close Pilate
   once more in mockery presented to them Jesus: Behold your King!' [6033]
   Once more they called for His Crucifixion - and, when again challenged,
   the chief priests burst into the cry, which preceded Pilate's final
   sentence, to be presently executed: We have no king but Cæsar!'

   With this cry Judaism was, in the person of its representatives, guilty
   of denial of God, of blasphemy, of apostasy. It committed suicide; and,
   ever since, has its dead body been carried in show from land to land,
   and from century to century: to be dead, and to remain dead, till He
   come a second time, Who is the Resurrection and the Life!
     __________________________________________________________________

   [5969] This is so expressly stated in St. John xviii. 28, that it is
   difficult to understand whence the notion has been derived that the
   Council assembled in their ordinary council-chamber.

   [5970] St. John xviii. 29, 30.

   [5971] St. Luke xxiii. 2.

   [5972] Comp. St. Matt. xxvii. 1 with. xxvi. 59, where the words and
   elders' must be struck out; and St. Mark xv. 1 with xiv. 55.

   [5973] These are the Urim and Thummim of the anima naturaliter
   Christiana.'

   [5974] This is, of course, not the traditional site, nor yet that which
   was formerly in favour. But as the Palace of Herod undoubtedly became
   (as all royal residences) the property of the State, and as we have
   distinct evidence that Roman Procurators resided there, and took their
   seat in front of that Palace on a raised pavement to pronounce judgment
   (Jos. War ii. 14. 8; comp. Philo, ad Caj. § 38), the inference is
   obvious, that Pilate, especially as he was accompanied by his wife,
   resided there also.

   [5975] The various reasons for this need not here be discussed. As
   these pages are passing through the press (for a second edition) my
   attention has been called to Dr. Schürer's brochure (Ueber phagen t
   pscha,' Giessen, 1883), intended to controvert the interpretation of
   St. John xviii. 28, given in the text. This is not the place to enter
   on the subject at length. But I venture to think that, with all his
   learning, Dr. Schürer has not quite met the case, nor fully answered
   the argument as put by Kirchner and Wieseler. Putting aside any
   argument from the supposed later date of the Priest-Codex,' as compared
   with Deuter., and indeed the purely Biblical argument, since the
   question is as to the views entertained in the time of Christ, Schürer
   argues: 1. That the Chagigah was not designated by the term Pesach. 2.
   That the defilement from entering a heathen house would not have ceased
   in the evening (so as to allow them to eat the Passover), but have
   lasted for seven days, as being connected with the suspicion that an
   abortus - i.e. a dead body - might be buried in the house. On the first
   point we refer to Note 1 on the next page, only adding that, with all
   his ingenuity, Schürer has not met all the passages adduced on the
   other side, and that the view advocated in the text is that adopted by
   many Jewish scholars. The argument on the second point is even more
   unsatisfactory. The defilement from entering the Prætorium, which the
   Sanhedrists dreaded, might be - or rather, in this case must have been
   - due to other causes than that the house might contain an abortus or a
   dead body. And of such many may be conceived, connected either with the
   suspected presence of an idol in the house or with contact with an
   idolator. It is, indeed, true that Ohol. xviii. 7 refers to the
   suspicion of a buried abortus as the cause of regarding the houses of
   Gentiles as defiled; but even so, it would be too much to suppose that
   a bare suspicion of this kind would make a man unclean for seven days.
   For this it would have been necessary that the dead body was actually
   within the house entered, or that what contained it had been touched.
   But there is another and weightier consideration. Ohol. xviii. 7 is not
   so indefinite as Dr. Schürer implies. It contains a most important
   limitation. In order to make a house thus defiled (from suspicion of an
   abortus buried in it), it states that the house must have been
   inhabited by the heathen for forty days, and even so the custody of a
   Jewish servant or maid would have rendered needless a bediqah, or
   investigation (to clear the house of suspicion). Evidently, the
   Prætorium would not have fallen under the category contemplated in
   Ohol. xviii. 7, even if (which we are not prepared to admit) such a
   case would have involved a defilement of seven days. Thus Schürer's
   argument falls to the ground. Lastly, although the Chagigah could only
   be brought by the offerer in person, the Paschal Lamb might be brought
   for another person, and then the tebhul yom partake of it. Thus, if the
   Sanhedrists had been defiled in the morning they might have eaten the
   Pascha at night. Dr. Schürer in his brochure repeatedly appeals to
   Delitzsch (Zeitschr. f. Luther. Theol. 1874, pp. 1-4); but there is
   nothing in the article of that eminent scholar to bear out the special
   contention of Schürer, except that he traces the defilement of heathen
   houses to the cause in Ohal.xviii.7. Delitzsch concludes his paper by
   pointing to this very case in evidence that the N.T. documents date
   from the first, and not the second century of our era.

   [5976] Acts x 28.

   [5977] Ohol. xviii. 7; Tohar. vii. 3.

   [5978] Pes. 92 a.

   [5979] Jer. Pes. 36 b, lines 14 and 15 from bottom.

   [5980] Deut. xvi. 1-3; 2 Chron. xxxv. 1, 2, 6, 18.

   [5981] The subject has been so fully discussed in Wieseler, Beitr., and
   in Kirchner, Jüd. Passahfeier, not to speak of many others, that it
   seems needless to enter further on the question. No competent Jewish
   archæologist would care to deny that Pesach' may refer to the
   Chagigah,' while the motive assigned to the Sanhedrists by St. John
   implies, that in this instance it must refer to this, and not to the
   Paschal Lamb.

   [5982] {hebrew}. But concession was made to those who had neglected it
   on the first day to bring it during the festive week, which in the
   Feast of Tabernacles was extended to the Octave, and in that of Weeks
   (which lasted only one day) over a whole week (see Chag. 9 a; Jer.
   Chag. 76 c). The Chagigah could not, but the Paschal Lamb might be
   offered by a person on behalf of another.

   [5983] Most commentators suppose it to have been much earlier. I have
   followed the view of Keim.

   [5984] Nocens, nisi accusatus fuerit, condemnari non potest. In regard
   to the publicity of Roman procedure, comp. Acts xvi. 19; xvii. 6;
   xviii. 12; xxv. 6; Jos. War ii. 9. 3; 14. 8; maxima frequentia
   amplissimorum ac sapientissimorum civium adstante' (Cicero).

   [5985] Significantly the word is the same as that in reference to the
   betrayal of Judas.

   [5986] St. Matt. xxvii. 18.

   [5987] Acts xxii. 30; xxii. 28, 29; xxiv. 9, 18-20.

   [5988] Nicephorus, H. E. i. 30.

   [5989] Gospel according to Nicod. ch. ii.

   [5990] Staturnius (Jos. Ant. xviii. 3, 5).

   [5991] The apparently strange statement, St. John xviii. 32, affords
   another undesigned confirmation of the Jewish authorship of the Fourth
   Gospel. It seems to imply, that the Sanhedrin might have found a mode
   of putting Jesus to death in the same informal manner in which Stephen
   was killed and they sought to destroy Paul. The Jewish law recognised a
   form of procedure, or rather a want of procedure, when a person caught
   in flagrante delicto of blasphemy might be done to death without
   further inquiry.

   [5992] St. Luke xxii. 2, 3.

   [5993] St. John xviii. 37.

   [5994] St. Luke xxiii. 6-12.

   [5995] npempsen. Meyer marks this as the technical term in handing over
   a criminal to the proper judicial authority.

   [5996] It is worse than idle - it is trifling to ask, whence the
   Evangelists derived their accounts. As if those things had been done in
   a corner, or none of those who now were guilty had afterwards become
   disciples!

   [5997] St. Luke ix. 7-9.

   [5998] It is impossible to say, whether the gorgeous apparel' in which
   Herod arrayed Christ was purple, or white. Certainly it was not, as
   Bishop Haneberg suggests (Relig. Alterth. p. 554), an old high-priestly
   garment of the Maccabees.

   [5999] St. Matt. xxvii. 3-10.

   [6000] St Luke xxiii. 13; comp. St. Matt. xxvii. 17.

   [6001] The verb designating Scriptural repentance is metanoo; that here
   used is metamlomai, as in St. Matt. xxi. 29, as in St. Matt. xxi. 29,
   32; 2 Cor. vii. 8; Heb. vii. 21.

   [6002] The expression nas is always used in the N.T. of the Sanctuary
   itself, and not of the outer courts; but it would include the Court of
   the Priests, where the sacrifices were offered.

   [6003] I so understand the psas of St. Matt. xxvii. 5.

   [6004] nechrese.

   [6005] The topographical notice is based on Bädeker-Socin's Palästina,
   pp. 114-116.

   [6006] This, not with any idea that his death would expiate for his
   sin. No such idea attached to suicide among the Jews.

   [6007] Acts i. 18. 19.

   [6008] As presented in the text, there is no real divergence between
   the accounts of St. Matthew and the Book of Acts. Keim has formulated
   the supposed differences under five particulars, which are discussed
   seriatim by Nebe, Leidensgesch. vol. ii. pp. 12 &c.

   [6009] Acts. i. 18.

   [6010] St. Matt. xxvii, 7.

   [6011] Jer. xix.

   [6012] The alterations in the words quoted are, as previously
   explained, a targuming' of them.

   [6013] Most Commentators, however, regard the word Jeremy' as a lapse
   of memory, or an oversight by the Evangelist, or else as a very early
   error of transcription. Other explanations (more or less
   unsatisfactory) may be seen in the commentaries. Böhl (Alttest. Cit. p.
   78), following Valckenar, thinks the mistake arose from confounding
   Zriou (written abbreviated) with Iriou. But the whole question is of no
   real importance.

   [6014] According to the better reading of St. Mark xv. 8 the multitude
   was going up.'

   [6015] How can they who regard the Johannine account as implying that
   Christ was crucified on the morning before the Passover, explain the
   words of St. John, Ye have a custom, that I should release unto you one
   at the Passover?'

   [6016] The ancient reading Jesus Bar-Abbas' is not sufficiently
   attested to be adopted.

   [6017] St. Mark xi. 11.

   [6018] St. Matt. xxvii. 24, 25.

   [6019] See the quotations in Wetstein, ad loc., and Nebe, u. s. p. 104.

   [6020] thos p to amatos is a Hebraism = {hebrew}.

   [6021] In the LXX. version.

   [6022] Sot. ix. 6.

   [6023] The Evangelist put what he said into the well-remembered Old
   Testament words.

   [6024] Jos. War 14. 8. 9.

   [6025] St. John xix. 1, following.

   [6026] St. John xix.4, following.

   [6027] The Sagum, or short woollen military cloak, scarlet or purple
   (the two colours are often confounded, comp. Wetstein ad loc.),
   fastened by a clasp on the right shoulder. It was also worn by Roman
   generals, and sometimes (in more costly form and material) presented to
   foreign kings.

   [6028] Origen already marks in this a notable breach of military
   discipline. Keim (Jesu von Naz. iii. 2, pp. 393, &c.) gives a terribly
   graphic and realistic account of the whole scene. The soldiers were, as
   mostly in the provinces, chiefly provincials - in this case, probably
   Syrians. They were all the more bitterly hostile to the Jews (Jos. Ant.
   xix. 9. 1; War ii. 12, 1. 2; v. 11, 1 - there also derision at
   execution). A strange illustration of the scene is afforded by what
   happened only a few years afterwards at Alexandria, when the people in
   derision of King Agrippa I., arrayed a well-known maniac (Karabas) in a
   common door-mat, put a papyrus crown on his head, and a reed in his
   hand, and saluted him Maris,' lord (Philo, In Flacc. ed. Mang. ii. 522;
   Wetstein, N.T, i. p. 535). On all the classical illustrations and
   corroborations of the whole proceedings in every detail, the reader
   should consult Wetstein, ad loc.

   [6029] This is the proper order of the words. To release' is put first
   to induce Christ to speak.

   [6030] The derivation of Wünsche ({hebrew}) back of the Temple,' is on
   every ground to be rejected. Gabbath ({hebrew}) or Gabbetha means a
   rounded height.' It occurs also as the name of a town (Jer. Taan. 69
   b).

   [6031] I have simply rendered the paraskeu to pscha by Friday in
   Passover-week. The evidence for regarding paraskeu, in the Gospels, as
   the terminus technicus for Friday, has been often set forth. See
   Kirchner, D. jud. Passahf. pp. 47, &c.

   [6032] The hour (about the sixth') could only refer to when the process
   was taken in hand.

   [6033] I ought to mention that the verb kthisen in St. John xix. 13,
   has been taken by some critics in the transitive sense: Pilate . . .
   brought Jesus forth and seated Him in the judgment-seat,' implying an
   act of mock-homage on the part of Pilate when, in presenting to the
   Jews their King, he placed Him on the judgment-seat. Ingenious as the
   suggestion is, and in some measure supported, it does not accord with
   the whole tenour of the narrative.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XV.
 CRUCIFIED, DEAD, AND BURIED.'

   (St. Matt. xxvii. 31-43: St. Mark xv. 20-32(a); St. Luke xxiii. 26-38;
   St. John xix. 16-24; St. Matt. xxviii. 44; St. Mark xv. 32(b); St. Luke
   xxiii. 39-43; St. John xix. 25-27; St. Matt. xxvii. 45-56; St. Mark xv.
   33-41; St. Luke xxiii. 44-49; St. John xix. 28-30; St. John xix. 31-37;
   St. Matt. xxvii. 57-61; St. Mark xv. 42-47; St. Luke xxiii. 50-56; St.
   John xix. 38-42; St. Matt. xxvii. 62-66.)

   It matters little as regards their guilt, whether, pressing the
   language of St. John, [6034] we are to understand that Pilate delivered
   Jesus to the Jews to be crucified, or, as we rather infer, to his own
   soldiers. This was the common practice, and it accords both with the
   Governor's former taunt to the Jews, [6035] and with the after-notice
   of the Synoptists. They, to whom He was delivered,' led Him away to be
   crucified:' and they who so led Him forth compelled' the Cyrenian Simon
   to bear the Cross. We can scarcely imagine, that the Jews, still less
   the Sanhedrists, would have done this. But whether formally or not, the
   terrible crime of slaying, with wicked hands, their Messiah-King rests,
   alas, on Israel.

   Once more was He unrobed and robed. The purple robe was torn from His
   Wounded Body, the crown of thorns from His Bleeding Brow. Arrayed again
   in His own, now blood-stained, garments, He was led forth to execution.
   Only about two hours and a half had passed [6036] since the time that
   He had first stood before Pilate (about half-past six), [6037] when the
   melancholy procession reached Golgotha (at nine o'clock a.m.). In Rome
   an interval, ordinarily of two days, intervened between a sentence and
   its execution; but the rule does not seem to have applied to the
   provinces, [6038] if, indeed, in this case the formal rules of Roman
   procedure were at all observed.

   The terrible preparations were soon made: the hammer, the nails, the
   Cross, the very food for the soldiers who were to watch under each
   Cross. [6039] Four soldiers would be detailed for each Cross, the whole
   being under the command of a centurion. As always, the Cross was borne
   to the execution by Him Who was to suffer on it - perhaps His Arms
   bound to it with cords. But there is happily no evidence - rather,
   every indication to the contrary - that, according to ancient custom,
   the neck of the Sufferer was fastened within the patibulum, two
   horizontal pieces of wood, fastened at the end, to which the hands were
   bound. Ordinarily, the procession was headed by the centurion, [6040]
   or rather, preceded by one who proclaimed the nature of the crime,
   [6041] and carried a white, wooden board, on which it was written.
   Commonly, also, it took the longest road to the place of execution, and
   through the most crowded streets, so as to attract most public
   attention. But we would suggest, that alike this long circuit and the
   proclamation of the herald were, in the present instance, dispensed
   with. They are not hinted at in the text, and seem incongruous to the
   festive season, and the other circumstances of the history.

   Discarding all later legendary embellishments, [6042] as only
   disturbing, we shall try to realise the scene as described in the
   Gospels. Under the leadership of the centurion, whether or not attended
   by one who bore the board with the inscription, or only surrounded by
   the four soldiers, of whom one might carry this tablet, Jesus came
   forth bearing His Cross. He was followed by two malefactors - robbers'
   - probably of the class then so numerous, that covered its crimes by
   pretensions of political motives. These two, also, would bear each his
   cross, and probably be attended each by four soldiers. Crucifixion was
   not a Jewish mode of punishment, although the Maccabee King Jannæus
   had so far forgotten the claims of both humanity and religion as on one
   occasion to crucify not less than 800 persons in Jerusalem itself.
   [6043] But even Herod, with all cruelty, did not resort to this mode of
   execution. Nor was it employed by the Romans till after the time of
   Cæsar, when, with the fast increasing cruelty of punishments, it became
   fearfully common in the provinces. Especially does it seem to
   characterise the domination of Rome in Judæa under every Governor.
   During the last siege of Jerusalem hundreds of crosses daily arose,
   till there seemed not sufficient room nor wood for them, and the
   soldiery diversified their horrible amusement by new modes of
   crucifixion. So did the Jewish appeal to Rome for the Crucifixion of
   Israel's King come back in hundredfold echoes. But, better than such
   retribution, the Cross of the God-Man hath put an end to the punishment
   of the cross, and instead, made the Cross the symbol of humanity,
   civilisation, progress, peace, and love.

   As mostly all abominations of the ancient world, whether in religion or
   life, crucifixion was of Phoenician origin, although Rome adopted, and
   improved on it. The modes of execution among the Jews were:
   strangulation, beheading, burning, and stoning. In all ordinary
   circumstances the Rabbis were most reluctant to pronounce sentence of
   death. This appears even from the injunction that the Judges were to
   fast on the day of such a sentence. [6044] Indeed, two of the leading
   Rabbis record it, that no such sentence would ever have been pronounced
   in a Sanhedrin of which they had been members. The indignity of hanging
   - and this only after the criminal had been otherwise executed - was
   reserved for the crimes of idolatry and blasphemy. [6045] The place
   where criminals were stoned (Beth haSeqilah) was on an elevation about
   eleven feet high, from whence the criminal was thrown down by the first
   witness. If he had not died by the fall, the second witness would throw
   a large stone on his heart as he lay. If not yet lifeless, the whole
   people would stone him. [6046] At a distance of six feet from the place
   of execution the criminal was undressed, only the covering absolutely
   necessary for decency being left. [6047] [6048] In the case of Jesus we
   have reason to think that, while the mode of punishment to which He was
   subjected was un-Jewish, every concession would be made to Jewish
   custom, and hence we thankfully believe that on the Cross He was spared
   the indignity of exposure. Such would have been truly un-Jewish. [6049]

   Three kinds of Cross were in use: the so-called St. Andrew's Cross (x,
   the Crux decussata), the Cross in the form of a T (Crux Commissa), and
   the ordinary Latin Cross (+, Crux immissa). We believe that Jesus bore
   the last of these. This would also most readily admit of affixing the
   board with the threefold inscription, which we know His Cross bore.
   Besides, the universal testimony of those who lived nearest the time
   (Justin Martyr, Irenæus, and others), and who, alas! had only too much
   occasion to learn what crucifixion meant, is in favour of this view.
   This Cross, as St. John expressly states, Jesus Himself bore at the
   outset. And so the procession moved on towards Golgotha. Not only the
   location, but even the name of that which appeals so strongly to every
   Christian heart, is matter of controversy. The name cannot have been
   derived from the skulls which lay about, since such exposure would have
   been unlawful, and hence must have been due to the skull-like shape and
   appearance of the place. Accordingly, the name is commonly explained as
   the Greek form of the Aramæan Gulgalta, or the Hebrew Gulgoleth, which
   means a skull.

   Such a description would fully correspond, not only to the requirements
   of the narrative, but to the appearance of the place which, so far as
   we can judge, represents Golgotha. We cannot here explain the various
   reasons for which the traditional site must be abandoned. Certain it
   is, that Golgotha was outside the gate,' [6050] and near the City.'
   [6051] In all likelihood it was the usual place of execution. Lastly,
   we know that it was situated near gardens, where there were tombs, and
   close to the highway. The three last conditions point to the north of
   Jerusalem. It must be remembered that the third wall, which afterwards
   surrounded Jerusalem, was not built till several years after the
   Crucifixion. The new suburb of Bezetha extended at that time outside
   the second wall. Here the great highway passed northwards; close by,
   were villas and gardens; and here also rockhewn sepulchres have been
   discovered, which date from that period. But this is not all. The
   present Damascus Gate in the north of the city seems, in most ancient
   tradition, to have borne the name of St. Stephen's Gate, because the
   Proto-Martyr was believed to have passed through it to his stoning.
   Close by, then, must have been the place of execution. And at least one
   Jewish tradition fixes upon this very spot, close by what is known as
   the Grotto of Jeremiah, as the ancient place of stoning' (Beth
   haSeqilah). And the description of the locality answers all
   requirements. It is a weird, dreary place, two or three minutes aside
   from the high road, with a high, rounded, skull-like rocky plateau, and
   a sudden depression or hollow beneath, as if the jaws of the skull had
   opened. Whether or not the tomb of the Herodian period in the rocky
   knoll to the west of Jeremiah's Grotto' was the most sacred spot upon
   earth - the Sepulchre in the Garden,' we dare not positively assert,
   though every probability attaches to it. [6052]

   Thither, then, did that melancholy procession wind, between eight and
   nine o'clock on that Friday in Passover week. From the ancient Palace
   of Herod it descended, and probably passed through the gate in the
   first wall, and so into the busy quarter of Acra. As it proceeded, the
   numbers who followed from the Temple, from the dense business-quarter
   through which it moved, increased. Shops, bazaars, and markets were,
   indeed, closed on the holy feast-day. But quite a crowd of people would
   come out to line the streets and to follow; and, especially, women,
   leaving their festive preparations, raised loud laments, not in
   spiritual recognition of Christ's claims, but in pity and sympathy.
   [6053] [6054] And who could have looked unmoved on such a spectacle,
   unless fanatical hatred had burnt out of his bosom all that was human?
   Since the Paschal Supper Jesus had not tasted either food or drink.
   After the deep emotion of that Feast, with all of holiest institution
   which it included; after the anticipated betrayal of Judas, and after
   the farewell to His disciples, He had passed into Gethsemane. There for
   hours, alone - since His nearest disciples could not watch with Him
   even one hour - the deep waters had rolled up to His soul. He had drunk
   of them, immersed, almost perished in them. There had he agonised in
   mortal conflict, till the great drops of blood forced themselves on His
   Brow. There had He been delivered up, while they all had fled. To
   Annas, to Caiaphas, to Pilate, to Herod, and again to Pilate; from
   indignity to indignity, from torture to torture, had He been hurried
   all that livelong night, all that morning. All throughout He had borne
   Himself with a Divine Majesty, which had awakened alike the deeper
   feelings of Pilate and the infuriated hatred of the Jews. But if His
   Divinity gave its true meaning to His Humanity, that Humanity gave its
   true meaning to His voluntary Sacrifice. So, far, then, from seeking to
   hide its manifestations, the Evangelists, not indeed needlessly but
   unhesitatingly, put them forward. [6055] Unrefreshed by food or sleep,
   after the terrible events of that night and morning, while His pallid
   Face bore the blood-marks from the crown of thorns, His mangled Body
   was unable to bear the weight of the Cross. No wonder the pity of the
   women of Jerusalem was stirred. But ours is not pity, it is worship at
   the sight. For, underlying His Human Weakness was the Divine Strength
   which led Him to this voluntary self-surrender and self-exinanition. It
   was the Divine strength of His pity and love which issued in His Human
   weakness.

   Up to that last Gate which led from the Suburb' towards the place of
   execution did Jesus bear His Cross. Then, as we infer, His strength
   gave way under it. A man was coming from the opposite direction, one
   from that large colony of Jews which, as we know, had settled in
   Cyrene. [6056] He would be specially noticed; for, few would at that
   hour, on the festive day, come out of the country,' [6057] although
   such was not contrary to the Law. So much has been made of this, that
   it ought to be distinctly known that travelling, which was forbidden on
   Sabbaths, was not prohibited on feast-days. [6058] Besides, the place
   whence he came - perhaps his home - might have been within the
   ecclesiastical boundary of Jerusalem. At any rate, he seems to have
   been well known, at least afterwards, in the Church - and his sons
   Alexander and Rufus even better than he. [6059] Thus much only can we
   say with certainty; to identify them with persons of the same name
   mentioned in other parts of the New Testament can only be matter of
   speculation. [6060] But we can scarcely repress the thought that Simon
   the Cyrenian had not before that day been a disciple; had only learned
   to follow Christ, when, on that day, as he came in by the Gate, the
   soldiery laid hold on him, and against his will forced him to bear the
   Cross after Christ. Yet another indication of the need of such help
   comes to us from St. Mark, [6061] who uses an expression [6062] which
   conveys, though not necessarily that the Saviour had to be borne, yet
   that He had to be supported to Golgotha from the place where they met
   Simon.

   Here, where, if the Saviour did not actually sink under His burden, it
   yet required to be transferred to the Cyrenian, while Himself
   henceforth needed bodily support, we place the next incident in this
   history. [6063] While the Cross was laid on the unwilling Simon, the
   women who had followed with the populace closed around the Sufferer,
   raising their lamentations. [6064] At His Entrance into Jerusalem,
   [6065] Jesus had wept over the daughters of Jerusalem; as He left it
   for the last time, they wept over Him. But far different were the
   reasons for His tears from theirs of mere pity. And, if proof were
   required of His Divine strength, even in the utmost depth of His Human
   weakness - how, conquered, He was Conqueror - it would surely be found
   in the words in which He bade them turn their thoughts of pity where
   pity would be called for, even to themselves and their children in the
   near judgment upon Jerusalem. The time would come, when the Old
   Testament curse of barrenness [6066] would be coveted as a blessing. To
   show the fulfilment of this prophetic lament of Jesus, it is not
   necessary to recall the harrowing details recorded by Josephus, [6067]
   when a frenzied mother roasted her own child, and in the mockery of
   desperateness reserved the half of the horrible meal for those
   murderers who daily broke in upon her to rob her of what scanty food
   had been left her; nor yet other of those incidents, too revolting for
   needless repetition, which the historian of the last siege of Jerusalem
   chronicles. But how often, these many centuries, must Israel's women
   have felt that terrible longing for childlessness, and how often must
   the prayer of despair for the quick death of falling mountains and
   burying hills rather than prolonged torture [6068] have risen to the
   lips of Israel's sufferers! And yet, even so, these words were also
   prophetic of a still more terrible future! [6069] For, if Israel had
   put such flame to its green tree' how terribly would the Divine
   judgment burn among the dry wood of an apostate and rebellious people,
   that had so delivered up its Divine King, and pronounced sentence upon
   itself by pronouncing it upon Him!

   And yet natural, and, in some respects, genuine, as were the tears of
   the daughters of Jerusalem,' mere sympathy with Christ almost involves
   guilt, since it implies a view of Him which is essentially the opposite
   of that which His claims demand. These tears were the emblem of that
   modern sentiment about the Christ which, in its effusiveness, offers
   insult rather than homage, and implies rejection rather than
   acknowledgment of Him. We shrink with horror from the assumption of a
   higher standpoint, implied in so much of the modern so-called criticism
   about the Christ. But even beyond this, all mere sentimentalism is here
   the outcome of unconsciousness of our real condition. When a sense of
   sin has been awakened in us, we shall mourn, not for what Christ has
   suffered, but for what He suffered for us. The effusiveness of mere
   sentiment is impertinence or folly: impertinence, if He was the Son of
   God; folly, if He was merely Man. And, even from quite another point of
   view, there is here a lesson to learn. It is the peculiarity of
   Romanism ever to present the Christ in His Human weakness. It is that
   of an extreme section on the opposite side, to view Him only in His
   Divinity. Be it ours ever to keep before us, and to worship as we
   remember it, that the Christ is the Saviour God-Man.

   It was nine of the clock when the melancholy procession reached
   Golgotha, and the yet more melancholy preparations for the Crucifixion
   commenced. Avowedly, the punishment was invented to make death as
   painful and as lingering as the power of human endurance. First, the
   upright wood was planted in the ground. It was not high, and probably
   the Feet of the Sufferer were not above one or two feet from the
   ground. Thus could the communication described in the Gospels take
   place between Him and others; thus, also, might His Sacred Lips be
   moistened with the sponge attached to a short stalk of hyssop. Next,
   the transverse wood (antenna) was placed on the ground, and the
   Sufferer laid on it, when His Arms were extended, drawn up, and bound
   to it. Then (this not in Egypt, but in Carthage and in Rome) a strong,
   sharp nail was driven, first into the Right, then into the Left Hand
   (the clavi trabales). Next, the Sufferer was drawn up by means of
   ropes, perhaps ladders; [6070] the transverse either bound or nailed to
   the upright, and a rest or support for the Body (the cornu or sedile)
   fastened on it. Lastly, the Feet were extended, and either one nail
   hammered into each, or a larger piece of iron through the two. We have
   already expressed our belief that the indignity of exposure was not
   offered at such a Jewish execution. And so might the crucified hang for
   hours, even days, in the unutterable anguish of suffering, till
   consciousness at last failed.

   It was a merciful Jewish practice to give to those led to execution a
   draught of strong wine mixed with myrrh so as to deaden consciousness.
   [6071] This charitable office was performed at the cost of, if not by,
   an association of women in Jerusalem. [6072] That draught was offered
   to Jesus when He reached Golgatha. [6073] But having tasted it, and
   ascertained its character and object, He would not drink it. It was
   like His former refusal of the pity of the daughters of Jerusalem.' No
   man could take His Life from Him; He had power to lay it down, and to
   take it up again. Nor would He here yield to the ordinary weakness of
   our human nature; nor suffer and die as if it had been a necessity, not
   a voluntary self-surrender. He would meet Death, even in his sternest
   and fiercest mood, and conquer by submitting to the full. A lesson this
   also, though one difficult, to the Christian sufferer.

   And so was He nailed to His Cross, which was placed between, probably
   somewhat higher than, those of the two malefactors crucified with Him.
   [6074] One thing only still remained: to affix to His Cross the
   so-called title' (titulus), on which was inscribed the charge on which
   He had been condemned. As already stated, it was customary to carry
   this board before the prisoner, and there is no reason ffor supposing
   any exception in this respect. Indeed, it seems implied in the
   circumstance, that the title' had evidently been drawn up under the
   direction of Pilate. It was - as might have been expected, and yet most
   significantly [6075] - trilingual: in Latin, Greek, and Aramæan. We
   imagine, that it was written in that order, [6076] and that the words
   were those recorded by the Evangelists (excepting St. Luke, [6077] who
   seems to give a modification of the orginal, or Aramæan, text). The
   inscription given by St. Matthew exactly corresponds with that which
   Eusebius [6078] records as the Latin titulus on the cross of one of the
   early martyrs. We therefore conclude, that it represents the Latin
   words. Again, it seems only natural, that the fullest, and to the Jews
   most offensive, description should have been in Aramæan, which all
   could read. Very significantly this is given by St. John. It follows,
   that the inscription given by St. Mark must represent that in Greek.
   Although much less comprehensive, it had the same number of words, and
   precisely the same number of letters, as that in Aramæan, given by St.
   John. [6079]

   It seems probable, that the Sanhedrists had heard from some one, who
   had watched the procession on its way to Golgotha, of the inscription
   which Pilate had written on the titulus' - partly to avenge himself on,
   and partly to deride, the Jews. It is not likely that they would have
   asked Pilate to take it down after it had been affixed to the Cross;
   and it seems scarcely credible, that they would have waited outside the
   Prætorium till the melancholy procession commenced its march. We
   suppose that, after the condemnation of Jesus, the Sanhedrists had gone
   from the Prætorium into the Temple, to take part in its services. When
   informed of the offensive tablet, they hastened once more to the
   Prætorium, to induce Pilate not to allow it to be put up. This explains
   the inversion in the order of the account in the Gospel of St. John,
   [6080] or rather, its location in that narrative in immediate
   connection with the notice, that the Sanhedrists were afraid the Jews
   who passed by might be influenced by the inscription. We imagine, that
   the Sanhedrists had originally no intention of doing anything so
   un-Jewish as not only to gaze at the sufferings of the Crucified, but
   to even deride Him in His Agony - that, in fact, they had not intended
   going to Golgotha at all. But when they found that Pilate would not
   yield to their remonstrances, some of them hastened to the place of
   Crucifixion, and, mingling with the crowd, sought to incite their
   jeers, so as to prevent any deeper impression [6081] which the
   significant words of the inscription might have produced. [6082]

   Before nailing Him to the Cross, the soldiers parted among them the
   poor worldly inheritance of His raiment. [6083] On this point there are
   slight seeming differences [6084] between the notices of the Synoptists
   and the more detailed account of the Fourth Gospel. Such differences,
   if real, would afford only fresh evidence of the general
   trustworthiness of the narrative. For, we bear in mind that, of all the
   disciples, only St. John witnessed the last scenes, and that therefore
   the other accounts of it circulating in the early Church must have been
   derived, so to speak, from second sources. This explains, why perhaps
   the largest number of seeming discrepancies in the Gospels occurs in
   the narrative of the closing hours in the Life of Christ, and how,
   contrary to what otherwise we might have expected, the most detailed as
   well as precise account of them comes to us from St. John. In the
   present instance these slight seeming differences may be explained in
   the following manner. There was, as St. John states, first a division
   into four parts - one to each of the soldiers - of such garments of the
   Lord as were of nearly the same value. The head-gear, the outer
   cloak-like garment, the girdle, and the sandals, would differ little in
   cost. But the question, which of them was to belong to each of the
   soldiers, would naturally be decided, as the Synoptists inform us, by
   lot.

   But, besides these four articles of dress, there was the seamless woven
   inner garment, [6085] by far the most valuable of all, and for which,
   as it could not be partitioned without being destroyed, they would
   specially cast lots [6086] (as St. John reports). Nothing in this world
   can be accidental, since God is not far from any of us. But in the
   History of the Christ the Divine purpose, which forms the subject of
   all prophecy, must have been constantly realised; nay, this must have
   forced itself on the mind of the observer, and the more irresistibly
   when, as in the present instance, the outward circumstances were in
   such sharp contrast to the higher reality. To St. John, the loving and
   loved disciple, greater contrast could scarcely exist than between this
   rough partition by lot among the soldiery, and the character and claims
   of Him Whose garments they were thus apportioning, as if He had been a
   helpless Victim in their hands. Only one explanation could here suggest
   itself: that there was a special Divine meaning in the permission of
   such an event - that it was in fulfilment of ancient prophecy. As he
   gazed on the terrible scene, the words of the Psalm [6087] [6088] which
   portrayed the desertion, the sufferings, and the contempt even unto
   death of the Servant of the Lord, stood out in the red light of the Sun
   setting in Blood. They flashed upon his mind - for the first time he
   understood them; [6089] and the flames which played around the Sufferer
   were seen to be the sacrificial fire that consumed the Sacrifice which
   He offered. That this quotation is made in the Fourth Gospel alone,
   proves that its writer was an eyewitness; that it was made in the
   Fourth Gospel at all, that he was a Jew, deeply imbued with Jewish
   modes of religious thinking. And the evidence of both is the stronger,
   as we recall the comparative rareness, and the peculiarly Judaic
   character of the Old Testament quotations in the Fourth Gospel. [6090]

   It was when they thus nailed Him to the Cross, and parted His raiment,
   that He spake the first of the so-called Seven Words:' Father, forgive
   them, for they know not what they do.' [6091] Even the reference in
   this prayer to what they do' (not in the past, nor future) points to
   the soldiers as the primary, though certainly not the sole object of
   the Saviour's prayer. [6092] [6093] But higher thoughts also come to
   us. In the moment of the deepest abasement of Christ's Human Nature,
   the Divine bursts forth most brightly. It is, as if the Saviour would
   discard all that is merely human in His Sufferings, just as before He
   had discarded the Cup of stupefying wine. These soldiers were but the
   unconscious instruments: the form was nothing; the contest was between
   the Kingdom of God and that of darkness, between the Christ and Satan,
   and these sufferings were but the necessary path of obedience, and to
   victory and glory. When He is most human (in the moment of His being
   nailed to the Cross), then is He most Divine, in the utter discarding
   of the human elements of human instrumentality and of human suffering.
   Then also in the utter self-forgetfulness of the God-Man - which is one
   of the aspects of the Incarnation - does He only remember Divine mercy,
   and pray for them who crucify Him; and thus also does the Conquered
   truly conquer His conquerors by asking for them what their deed had
   forfeited. And lastly, in this, that alike the first and the last of
   His Utterances begin with Father,' does He show by the unbrokenness of
   His faith and fellowship the real spiritual victory which He has won.
   And He has won it, not only for the martyrs, who have learned from Him
   to pray as He did, but for everyone who, in the midst of all that seems
   most opposed to it, can rise, beyond mere forgetfulness of what is
   around, to realising faith and fellowship with God as the Father,' -
   who through the dark curtain of cloud can discern the bright sky, and
   can feel the unshaken confidence, if not the unbroken joy, of absolute
   trust.

   This was His first Utterance on the Cross - as regarded them; as
   regarded Himself; and as regarded God. So, surely, suffered not Man.
   Has this prayer of Christ been answered? We dare not doubt it; nay, we
   perceive it in some measure in those drops of blessing which have
   fallen upon heathen men, and have left to Israel also, even in its
   ignorance, a remnant according to the election of grace. [6094]

   And now began the real agonies of the Cross - physical, mental, and
   spiritual. It was the weary, unrelieved waiting, as thickening darkness
   gradually gathered around. Before sitting down to their melancholy
   watch over the Crucified, [6095] the soldiers would refresh themselves,
   after their exertion in nailing Jesus to the Cross, lifting it up, and
   fixing it, by draughts of the cheap wine of the country. As they
   quaffed it, they drank to Him in their coarse brutality, and mockingly
   came to Him, asking Him to pledge them in response. Their jests were,
   indeed, chiefly directed not against Jesus personally, but in His
   Representative capacity, and so against the hated, despised Jews, whose
   King they now derisively challenged to save Himself. [6096] Yet even
   so, it seems to us of deepest significance, thatHe was so treated and
   derided in His Representative Capacity and as the King of the Jews. It
   is the undesigned testimony of history, alike as regarded the character
   of Jesus and the future of Israel. But what from almost any point of
   view we find so difficult to understand is, the unutterable abasement
   of the Leaders of Israel - their moral suicide as regarded Israel's
   hope and spiritual existence. There, on that Cross, hung He, Who at
   least embodied that grand hope of the nation; Who, even on their own
   showing, suffered to the extreme for that idea, and yet renounced it
   not, but clung fast to it in unshaken confidence; One, to Whose Life or
   even Teaching no objection could be offered, save that of this grand
   idea. And yet, when it came to them in the ribald mockery of this
   heathen soldiery, it evoked no other or higher thoughts in them; and
   they had the indescribable baseness of joining in the jeer at Israel's
   great hope, and of leading the popular chorus in it!

   For, we cannot doubt, that - perhaps also by way of turning aside the
   point of the jeer from Israel - they took it up, and tried to direct it
   against Jesus; and that they led the ignorant mob in the piteous
   attempts at derision. And did none of those who so reviled Him in all
   the chief aspects of His Work feel, that, as Judas had sold the Master
   for nought and committed suicide, so they were doing in regard to their
   Messianic hope? For, their jeers cast contempt on the four great facts
   in the Life and Work of Jesus, which were also the underlying ideas of
   the Messianic Kingdom: the new relationship to Israel's religion and
   the Temple (Thou that destroyest the Temple, and buildest it in three
   days'); the new relationship to the Father through the Messiah, the Son
   of God (if Thou be the Son of God'); the new all-sufficient help
   brought to body and soul in salvation (He saved others'); and, finally,
   the new relationship to Israel in the fulfilment and perfecting of its
   Mission through its King (if He be the King of Israel'). On all these,
   the taunting challenge of the Sanhedrists, to come down from the Cross,
   and save Himself, if he would claim the allegiance of their faith, cast
   what St. Matthew and St. Mark characterise as the blaspheming' [6097]
   of doubt. We compare with theirs the account of St. Luke and St. John.
   That of St. Luke reads like the report of what had passed, given by one
   who throughout had been quite close by, perhaps taken part in the
   Crucifixion [6098] - one might almost venture to suggest, that it had
   been furnished by the Centurion. [6099] The narrative of St. John reads
   markedly like that of an eyewitness, and he a Judæan. [6100] And as we
   compare both the general Judæan cast and Old Testament quotations in
   this with the other parts of the Fourth Gospel, we feel as if (as so
   often), under the influence of the strongest emotions, the later
   development and peculiar thinking of so many years afterwards had for
   the time been effaced from the mind of St. John, or rather given place
   to the Jewish modes of conception and speech, familiar to him in
   earlier days. Lastly, the account of St. Matthew seems as if written
   from the priestly point of view, as if it had been furnished by one of
   the Priests or Sanhedrist party, present at the time.

   Yet other inferences come to us. First, there is a remarkable
   relationship between what St. Luke quotes as spoken by the soldiers: If
   Thou art the King of the Jews, save Thyself,' and the report of the
   words in St. Matthew: [6101] He saved others - Himself He cannot save.
   He [6102] is the King of Israel! Let Him now come down from the Cross,
   and we will believe on Him!' These are the words of the Sanhedrists,
   and they seem to respond to those of the soldiers, as reported by St.
   Luke, and to carry them further. The if' of the soldiers: If Thou art
   the King of the Jews,' now becomes a direct blasphemous challenge. As
   we think of it, they seem to re-echo, and now with the laughter of
   hellish triumph, the former Jewish challenge for an outward, infallible
   sign to demonstrate His Messiahship. But they also take up, and
   re-echo, what Satan had set before Jesus in the Temptation of the
   wilderness. At the begining of His Work, the Tempter had suggested that
   the Christ should achieve absolute victory by an act of presumptuous
   self-assertion, utterly opposed to the spirit of the Christ, but which
   Satan represented as an act of trust in God, such as He would assuredly
   own. And now, at the close of His Messianic Work, the Tempter
   suggested, in the challenge of the Sanhedrists, that Jesus had suffered
   absolute defeat, and that God had publicly disowned the trust which the
   Christ had put in Him. He trusteth in God: let Him deliver Him now, if
   He will have Him.' [6103] Here, as in the Temptation of the Wilderness,
   the words misapplied were those of Holy Scripture - in the present
   instance those of Ps. xxii. 8. And the quotation, as made by the
   Sanhedrists, is the more remarkable, that, contrary to what is
   generally asserted by writers, this Psalm [6104] was Messianically
   applied by the ancient Synagogue. [6105] More especially was this
   verse, [6106] which precedes the mocking quotation of the Sanhedrists,
   expressly applied to the sufferings and the derision which Messiah was
   to undergo from His enemies: All they that see Me laugh Me to scorn:
   they shoot out the lip, they shake the head.' [6107] [6108]

   The derision of the Sanhedrists under the Cross was, as previously
   stated, not entirely spontaneous, but had a special motive. The place
   of Crucifixion was close to the great road which led from the North to
   Jerusalem. On that Feast-day, when, as there was no law to limit, as on
   the weekly day of rest, locomotion to a Sabbath day's journey,' many
   would pass in and out of the City, and the crowd would naturally be
   arrested by the spectacle of the three Crosses. Equally naturally would
   they have been impressed by the titulus over the Cross of Christ. The
   words, describing the Sufferer as the King of the Jews,' might, when
   taken in connection with what was known of Jesus, have raised most
   dangerous questions. And this the presence of the Sanhedrists was
   intended to prevent, by turning the popular mind in a totally different
   direction. It was just such a taunt and argumentation as would appeal
   to that coarse realism of the common people, which is too often
   misnamed common sense.' St. Luke significantly ascribes the derision of
   Jesus only to the Rulers, [6109] and we repeat, that that of the
   passers by, recorded by St. Matthew and St. Mark, was excited by them.
   Thus here also the main guilt rested on the leaders of the people.
   [6110]

   One other trait comes to us from St. Luke, confirming our impression
   that his account was derived from one who had stood quite close to the
   Cross, probably taken official part in the Crucifixion. St. Matthew and
   St. Mark merely remark in general, that the derision of the Sanhedrists
   and people was joined in by the thieves on the Cross. [6111] A trait
   this, which we feel to be not only psychologically true, but the more
   likely of occurrence, that any sympathy or possible alleviation of
   their sufferings might best be secured by joining in the scorn of the
   leaders, and concentrating popular indignation upon Jesus. But St. Luke
   also records a vital difference between the two robbers' on the Cross.
   [6112] The impenitent thief takes up the jeer of the Sanhedrists: Art
   Thou not the Christ? [6113] Save Thyself and us!' The words are the
   more significant, alike in their bearing on the majestic calm and
   pitying love of the Saviour on the Cross, and on the utterance of the
   penitent thief,' that - strange as it may sound - it seems to have been
   a terrible phenomenon, noted by historians, [6114] that those on the
   cross were wont to utter insults and imprecations on the onlookers,
   goaded nature perhaps seeking relief in such outbursts. Not so when the
   heart was touched in true repentance.

   If a more close study of the words of the penitent thief' may seem to
   diminish the fulness of meaning which the traditional view attaches to
   them, they gain all the more as we perceive their historic reality. His
   first words were of reproof to his comrade. In that terrible hour,
   amidst the tortures of a slow death, did not the fear of God creep over
   him - at least so far as to prevent his joining in the vile jeers of
   those who insulted the dying agonies of the Sufferer? [6115] And this
   all the more, in the peculiar circumstances. They were all three
   sufferers; but they two justly, while He Whom he insulted had done
   nothing amiss. From this basis of fact, the penitent rapidly rose to
   the height of faith. This is not uncommon, when a mind is learning the
   lessons of truth in the school of grace. Only, it stands out here the
   more sharply, because of the dark background against which it is traced
   in such broad and brightly shining outlines. The hour of the deepest
   abasement of the Christ was, as all the moments of His greatest
   Humilation, to be marked by a manifestation of His Glory and Divine
   Character - as it were, by God's testimony to Him in history, if not by
   the Voice of God from heaven. And, as regarded the penitent' himself,
   we notice the progression in his soul. No one could have been ignorant
   - least of all those who were led forth with Him to crucifixion, that
   Jesus did not suffer for any crime, nor for any political movement, but
   because He professed to embody the great hope of Israel, and was
   rejected by its leaders. And, if any had been ignorant, the title' over
   the Cross and the bitter enmity of the Sanhedrists, which followed Him
   with jeers and jibes, where even ordinary humanity, and still more
   Jewish feeling, would have enjoined silence, if not pity, must have
   shown what had been the motives of the condemnation' of Jesus. But,
   once the mind was opened to perceive all these facts, the progress
   would be rapid. In hours of extremity a man may deceive himself and
   fatally mistake fear for the fear of God, and the remembrance of
   certain external knowledge for spiritual experience. But, if a man
   really learns in such seasons, the teaching of years may be compressed
   into moments, and the dying thief on the Cross might outdistance the
   knowledge gained by Apostles in their years of following Christ.

   One thing stood out before the mind of the penitent thief,' who in that
   hour did fear God. Jesus had done nothing amiss. And this surrounded
   with a halo of moral glory the inscription on the Cross, long before
   its words acquired a new meaniag. But how did this Innocent One bear
   Himself in suffering? Right royally - not in an earthly sense, but in
   that in which alone He claimed the Kingdom. He had so spoken to the
   women who had lamented Him, as His faint form could no longer bear the
   burden of the Cross; and He had so refused the draught that would have
   deadened consciousness and sensibility. Then, as they three were
   stretched on the transverse beam, and, in the first and sharpest agony
   of pain, the nails were driven with cruel stroke of hammer through the
   quivering flesh, and, in the nameless agony that followed the first
   moments of the Crucifixion, only a prayer for those who in ignorance,
   were the instruments of His torture, had passed His lips. And yet He
   was innocent, Who so cruelly suffered. All that followed must have only
   deepened the impression. With what calm of endurance and majesty of
   silence He had borne the insult and jeers of those who, even to the
   spiritually unenlightened eye, must have seemed so infinitely far
   beneath Him! This man did feel the fear' of God, who now learned the
   new lesson in which the fear of God was truly the beginning of wisdom.
   And, once he gave place to the moral element, when under the fear of
   God he reproved his comrade, this new moral decision became to him, as
   so often, the beginning of spiritual life. Rapidly he now passed into
   the light, and onwards and upwards: Lord, remember me, when Thou comest
   in Thy Kingdom!'

   The familiar words of our Authorised Version - When Thou comest into
   Thy Kingdom' - convey the idea of what we might call a more spiritual
   meaning of the petition. But we can scarcely beleive, that at that
   moment it implied either that Christ was then going into His Kingdom,
   or that the penitent thief' looked to Christ for admission into the
   Heavenly Kingdom. The words are true to the Jewish point of vision of
   the man. He recognised and owned Jesus as the Messiah, and he did so,
   by a wonderful forthgoing of faith, even in the utmost Humiliation of
   Christ. And this immediately passed beyond the Jewish standpoint, for
   he expected Jesus soon to come back in His Kingly might and power, when
   he asked to be remembered by Him in mercy. And here we have again to
   bear in mind that, during the Life of Christ upon earth, and, indeed,
   before the outpouring of the Holy Ghost, men always first learned to
   believe in the Person of the Christ, and then to know His teaching and
   His Mission in the forgiveness of sins. It was so in this case also. If
   the penitent thief' had learned to know the Christ, and to ask for
   gracious recognition in His coming Kingdom, the answering assurance of
   the Lord conveyed not only the comfort that his prayer was answered,
   but the teaching of spiritual things which he knew not yet, and so much
   needed to know. The penitent' had spoken of the future, Christ spoke of
   to-day'; the penitent had prayed about that Messianic Kingdom which was
   to come, Christ assured him in regard to the state of the disembodied
   spirits, and conveyed to him the promise that he would be there in the
   abode of the blessed - Paradise' - and that through means of Himself as
   the Messiah: Amen, I say unto thee - To-day with Me shalt thou be in
   the Paradise.' Thus did Christ give him that spiritual knowledge which
   he did not yet possess - the teaching concerning the to-day,' the need
   of gracious admission into Paradise, and that with and through Himself
   - in other words, concerning the forgiveness of sins and the opening of
   the Kingdom of Heaven to all believers. This, as the first and
   foundation-creed of the soul, was the first and foundation-fact
   concerning the Messiah.

   This was the Second Utterance from the Cross. The first had been of
   utter self-forgetfullness; the second of deepest, wisest, most gracious
   spiritual teaching. And, had He spoken none other than these, He would
   have been proved to be the Son of God. [6116]

   Nothing more would require to be said to the penitent' on the Cross.
   The events which followed, and the words which Jesus would still speak,
   would teach him more fully thatn could otherwise have been done. Some
   hours - probably two - had passed since Jesus had been nailed to the
   Cross. We wonder how it came that St. John, who tells us some of the
   incidents with such exceeding particularity, and relates all with the
   vivid realisation of a most deeply interested eyewitness, should have
   been silent as to others - especially as to those hours of derision, as
   well as to the conversion of the penitent thief. His silence seems to
   us to have been due to absence from the scene. We part company with him
   after his detailed account of the last scene before Pilate. [6117] The
   final sentence pronounced, we suppose him to have hurried into the
   City, and to have acquainted such of the disciples as he might find -
   but especially those faithful women and the Virgin-Mother - with the
   terrible scenes that had passed since the previous evening. Thence he
   returned to Golgotha, just in time to witness the Crucifixion, which he
   again describes with peculiar fulness of details. [6118] When the
   Saviour was nailed to the Cross, St. John seems once more to have
   returned to the City - this time, to bring back with him those-women,
   in company of whom we now find him standing close to the Cross. A more
   delicate, tender, loving service could not have been rendered than
   this. Alone, of all the disciples, he is there - not afraid to be near
   Christ, in the Palace of the High-Priest, before Pilate, and now under
   the Cross. And alone he renders to Christ this tender service of
   bringing the women and Mary to the Cross, and to them the protection of
   his guidance and company. He loved Jesus best; and it was fitting that
   to his manliness and affection should be entrusted the unspeakable
   privilege of Christ's dangerous inheritance. [6119]

   The narrative [6120] leaves the impression that with the beloved
   disciple these four women were standing close to the Cross: the Mother
   of Jesus, the Sister of His Mother, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary
   of Magdala. [6121] A comparison with what is related by St. Matthew
   [6122] and St. Mark [6123] supplies further important particulars. We
   read there of only three women, the name of the Mother of our Lord
   being omitted. But then it must be remembered that this refers to a
   later period in the history of the Crucifixion. It seems as if John had
   fulfilled to the letter the Lord's command: Behold thy mother,' and
   literally from that very hour' taken her to his own home. If we are
   right in this supposition, then, in the absence of St. John - who led
   away the Virgin-Mother from that scene of horror - the other three
   women would withdraw to a distance, where we find them at the end, not
   by the Cross,' as in St. John xix. 25, but beholding from afar,' and
   now joined by others also, who had loved and followed Christ.

   We further notice that, the name of the Virgin-Mother being omitted,
   the other three are the same as mentioned by St. John; only, Mary of
   Clopas is now described as the mother of James and Jose,' [6124] and
   Christ's Mother's Sister' as Solome' [6125] and the mother of Zebedee's
   children.' [6126] Thus Salome, the wife of Zebedee and St. John's
   mother, was the sister of the Virgin, and the beloved disciple the
   cousin (on the mother's side) of Jesus, and the nephew of the Virgin.
   This also helps to explain why the care of the Mother had been
   entrusted to him. Nor was Mary the wife of Clopas unconnected with
   Jesus. What we have every reason to regard as a trustworthy account
   [6127] describes Clopas as the brother of Joseph, the husband of the
   Virgin. Thus, not only Salome as the sister of the Virgin, but Mary
   also as the wife of Clopas, would, in a certain sense, have been His
   aunt, and her sons His cousins. And so we notice among the twelve
   Apostles five cousins of the Lord: the two sons of Salome and Zebedee,
   and the three sons of Alphæus or Clopas [6128] and Mary: James, Judas
   surnamed Lebbæus and Thaddæus, and Simon surnamed Zelotes or Cananæan.
   [6129]

   We can now in some measure realise events. When St. John had seen the
   Saviour nailed to the Cross, he had gone to the City and brought with
   him for a last mournful farewell the Virgin, accompanied by those who,
   as most nearly connected with her, would naturally be with her: her own
   sister Salome, the sister-in-law of Joseph and wife (or more probably
   widow) of Clopas, and her who of all others had experienced most of His
   blessed power to save - Mary of Magdala. Once more we reverently mark
   His Divine calm of utter self-forgetfulness and His human
   thoughtfulness for others. As they stood under the Cross, He committed
   His Mother to the disciple whom He loved, and established a new human
   relationship between him and her who was nearest to Himself. [6130] And
   calmly, earnestly, and immediately did that disciple undertake the
   sacred charge, and bring her - whose soul the sword had pierced - away
   from the scene of unutterable woe to the shelter of his home. [6131]
   And this temporary absence of John from the Cross may account for the
   want of all detail in his narrative till quite the closing scene.
   [6132]

   Now at last all that concerned the earthward aspect of His Mission - so
   far as it had to be done on the Cross - was ended. He had prayed for
   those who had nailed Him to it, in ignorance of what they did; He had
   given the comfort of assurance to the penitent, who had owned His Glory
   in His Humiliation; and He had made the last provision of love in
   regard to those nearest to Him. So to speak, the relations of His
   Humanity - that which touched His Human Nature in any direction - had
   been fully met. He had done with the Human aspect of His Work and with
   earth. And, appropriately, Nature seemed now to take sad farewell of
   Him, and mourned its departing Lord, Who, by His Personal connection
   with it, had once more lifted it from the abasement of the Fall into
   the region of the Divine, making it the dwelling-place, the vehicle for
   the manifestation, and the obedient messenger of the Divine.

   For three hours had the Saviour hung on the Cross. It was midday. And
   now the Sun was craped in darkness from the sixth to the ninth hour. No
   purpose can be served by attempting to trace the source of this
   darkness. It could not have been an eclipse, since it was the time of
   full moon; nor can we place reliance on the later reports on this
   subject of ecclesiastical writers. [6133] It seems only in accordance
   with the Evangelic narrative to regard the occurrence of the event as
   supernatural, while the event itself might have been brought about by
   natural causes; and among these we must call special attention to the
   earthquake in which this darkness terminated. [6134] For, it is a
   well-known phenomenon that such darkness not unfrequently precedes
   earthquakes. On the other hand, it must be freely admitted, that the
   language of the Evangelists seems to imply that this darkness extended,
   not only over the land of Israel, but over the inhabited earth. The
   expression must, of course, not be pressed to its full literality, but
   explained as meaning that it extended far beyond Judæa and to other
   lands. No reasonable objection can be raised from the circumstance,
   that neither the earthquake nor the preceding darkness are mentioned by
   any profane writer whose works have been preserved, since it would
   surely not be maintained that an historical record must have been
   preserved of every earthquake that occurred, and of every darkness that
   may have preceded it. [6135] But the most unfair argument is that,
   which tries to establish the unhistorical character of this narrative
   by an appeal to what are described as Jewish sayings expressive of
   similar expectancy. [6136] It is quite true that in old Testament
   prophecy - whether figuratively or really - the darkening, though not
   only of the sun, but also of the moon and stars, is sometimes
   connected, not with the Coming of Messiah, still less with His Death,
   but with the final Judgement. [6137] But Jewish tradition never speaks
   of such an event in connection with Messiah, or even with the Messianic
   judgments, and the quotations from Rabbinic writings made by negative
   critics must be characterised as not only inapplicable but even unfair.
   [6138]

   But to return from this painful digression. The three hours' darkness
   was such not only to Nature; Jesus, also, entered into darkness: Body,
   Soul, and Spirit. It was now, not as before, a contest - but suffering.
   Into this, to us, fathomless depth of the mystery of His Sufferings, we
   dare not, as indeed we cannot, enter. It was of the Body; yet not of
   the Body only, but of physical life. And it was of the Soul and Spirit;
   yet not of them alone, but in their conscious relation to man and to
   God. And it was not of the Human only in Christ, but in its indissolube
   connection with the Divine: of the Human, where it reached the utmost
   verge of humiliation to body, soul, and spirit - and in it of the
   Divine, to utmost self-exinanition. The increasing, nameless agonies of
   the Crucifixion [6139] were deepening into the bitterness of death. All
   nature shrinks from death, and there is a physical horror of the
   separation between body and soul which, as a purely natural phenomenon,
   is in every instance only overcome, and that only by a higher
   principle. And we conceive that the purer the being the greater the
   violence of the tearing asunder of the bond with which God Almighty
   originally bound together body and soul. In the Perfect Man this must
   have reached the highest degree. So, also, had in those dark hours the
   sense of man-forsakenness and His own isolation from man; so, also, had
   the intense silence of God, the withdrawal of God, the sense of His
   God-forsakenness and absolute loneliness. We dare not here speak of
   punitive suffering, but of forsakenness and loneliness. And yet as we
   ask ourselves how this forsakenness can be thought of as so complete in
   view of His Divine consciousness, which at least could not have been
   wholly extinguished by His Self-exinanition, we feel that yet another
   element must be taken into account. Christ on the Cross suffered for
   man; He offered Himself a sacrifice; He died for our sins, that, as
   death was the wages of sin, so He died as the Representative of man -
   for man and in room of man; He obtained for man eternal redemption,'
   [6140] having given His Life a ransom, [6141] for many.' For, men were
   redeemed' with the precious Blood of Christ, as of a Lamb without
   blemish and without spot;' [6142] and Christ gave Himself for us, that
   He might "redeem" us from all iniquity;' [6143] He gave Himself "a
   ransom" for all;' [6144] Christ died for all;' [6145] Him, Who knew no
   sin, God made sin for us;' Christ redeemed us from the curse of the
   Law, having become a curse for us' - and this, with express reference
   to the Crucifixion. [6146] This sacrifice, vicarious, expiatory, and
   redemptive character of His Death, if it does not explain to us, yet
   helps us to understand, Christ's sense of God-forsakenness in the
   surpreme moment of the Cross; if one might so word it - the passive
   character of His activeness through the active character of His
   passiveness.

   It was this combination of the Old Testament idea of sacrifice, and of
   the Old Testament ideal of willing suffering as the Servant of Jehovah,
   now fulfilled in Christ, which found its fullest expression in the
   language of the twenty-second Psalm. It was fitting - rather, it was
   true - that the willing suffering of the true Sacrifice should now find
   vent in its opening words: My God, My God, why hast Thou forsaken Me?'
   - Eli, Eli, lema sabachthanei? [6147] These words, cried with a loud
   voice [6148] at the close of the period of extreme agony, [6149] marked
   the climax and the end of this suffering of Christ, of which the utmost
   compass was the withdrawal of God and the felt loneliness of the
   Sufferer. But they that stood by the Cross, misinterpreting the
   meaning, and mistaking the opening words for the name Elias, imagined
   that the Sufferer had called for Elias. We can scarcely doubt, that
   these were the soldiers who stood by the Cross. They were not
   necessarily Romans; on the contrary, as we have seen, these Legions
   were generally recruited from Provincials. On the other hand, no Jew
   would have mistaken Eli for the name of Elijah, not yet misinterpreted
   a quotation of Psalm xxii. 1 as a call for that prophet. And it must be
   remembered, that the words were not whispered, but cried with a loud
   voice. But all entirely accords with the misunderstanding of non-Jewish
   soldiers, who, as the whole history shows, had learned from His
   accusers and the infuriated mob snatches of a distorted story of the
   Christ.

   And presently the Sufferer emerged on the other side. It can scarcely
   have been a minute or two from the time that the cry from the
   twenty-second Psalm marked the high-point of His Agony, when the words
   I thirst' [6150] seem to indicate, by the prevalence of the merely
   human aspect of the suffering, that the other and more terrible aspect
   of sin-bearing and God-forsakenness was past. To us, therefore, this
   seems the beginning, if not of Victory, yet of Rest, of the End. St.
   John alone records this Utterance, prefacing it with this distinctive
   statement, that Jesus so surrendered Himself to the human feeling,
   seeking the bodily relief by expressing His thirst: knowing that all
   things were now finished, that the Scripture might be fulfilled.'
   [6151] In other words, the climax of The anthropic Suffering in His
   feeling of God-forsakenness, which had led to the utterance of Psalm
   xxii. 1, was now, to His consciousness, the end of all which in
   accordance with Scripture-prediction He had to bear. He now could and
   did yield Himself to the mere physical wants of His Body.

   It seems as if St. John, having perhaps just returned to the scene, and
   standing with the women afar off,' beholding these things, [6152] had
   hastened forward on the cry from Psalm xxii., [6153] and heard Him
   express the feeling of thirst, which immediately followed. And so St.
   John alone supplies the link between that cry and the movement on the
   part of the soldiers, which St. Matthew and St. Mark, as well as St.
   John, report. For, it would be impossible to understand why, on what
   the soldiers regarded as a call for Elijah, one of them should have
   hastened to relieve His thirst, but for the Utterance recorded in the
   Fourth Gospel. But we can quite understand it, if the Utterance, I
   thirst,' followed immediately on the previous cry.

   One of the soldiers - may we not be allowed to believe, one who either
   had already learned from that Cross, or was about to learn, to own Him
   Lord - moved by sympathy, now ran to offer some slight refreshment to
   the Sufferer by filling a sponge with the rough wine of the soldiers
   and putting it to His lips, having first fastened it to the stem
   (reed') of the caper (hyssop'), which is said to grow to the height of
   even two or three feet. [6154] But, even so, this act of humanity was
   not allowed to pass unchallenged by the coarse jibes of the others who
   would bid him leave the relief of the Sufferer to the agency of Elijah,
   which in their opinion He had invoked. Nor should we perhaps wonder at
   the weakness of that soldier himself, who, though he would not be
   hindered in his good deed, yet averted the opposition of the others by
   apparently joining in their mockery. [6155]

   By accepting the physical refreshment offered Him, the Lord once more
   indicated the completion of the work of His Passion. For, as He would
   not enter on it with His senses and physical consciousness lulled by
   narcotised wine, so He would not pass out of it with senses and
   physical consciousness dulled by the absolute failure of life-power.
   Hence He took what for the moment restored the physical balance,
   needful for thought and word. And so He immediately passed on to taste
   death for every man.' For, the two last sayings' of the Saviour now
   followed in rapid succession: first, that with a loud voice, which
   expressed it, that the work given Him to do, as far as concerned His
   Passion, was finished;' [6156] and then, that in the words of Psalm
   xxxi. 5, in which He commended His Spirit into the Hands of the Father.
   [6157] Attempts at comment could only weaken the solemn thoughts which
   the words awaken. Yet some points should be noted for our teaching. His
   last cry with a loud voice' was not like that of one dying. St. Mark
   notes, that this made such deep impression on the Centurion. [6158] In
   the language of the early Christian hymn, it was not Death which
   approached Christ, but Christ Death: He died without death. [6159]
   Christ encountered Death, not as conquered, but as the Conqueror. And
   this also was part of His work, and for us: now the beginning of His
   Triumph. And with this agrees the peculiar language of St. John, that
   He bowed the Head, and gave up the Spirit' (t pnema).

   Nor should we fail to mark the peculiarities of His last Utterance. The
   My God' of the fourth Utterance had again passed into the Father' of
   conscious fellowship. And yet neither in the Hebrew original of this
   Psalm, nor in its Greek rendering by the LXX., does the word Father'
   occur. Again, in the LXX. translation of the Hebrew text this word
   expressive of entrustment - the commending - is in the future tense; on
   the lips of our Lord it is in the present tense. [6160] And the word,
   in its New Testament sense, means not merely commending: it is to
   deposit, to commit for safe keeping. [6161] That in dying - or rather
   meeting and overcoming Death - He chose and adapted these words, is
   matter for deepest thankfulness to the Church. He spoke them for His
   people in a twofold sense: on their behalf, that they might be able to
   speak them; and for them,' that henceforth they might speak them after
   Him. How many thousands have pillowed their heads on them when going to
   rest! They were the last words of a Polycarp, a Bernard, Huss, Luther,
   and Melanchthon. And to us also they may be the fittest and the softest
   lullaby. And in the Spirit' which He had committed to God did He now
   descend into Hades, and preached unto the spirits in prison.' [6162]
   But behind this great mystery have closed the two-leaved gates of
   brass, which only the Hand of the Conqueror could burst open.

   And now a shudder ran through Nature, as its Sun had set. We dare not
   do more than follow the rapid outlines of the Evangelic narrative. As
   the first token, it records the rending of the Temple-Veil in two from
   the top downward to the bottom; as the second, the quaking of the
   earth, the rending of the rocks and the opening of the graves. Although
   most writers have regarded this as indicating the strictly
   chronological succession, there is nothing in the text to bind us to
   such a conclusion. Thus, while the rending of the Veil is recorded
   first, as being the most significant token to Israel, it may have been
   connected with the earthquake, although this alone might scarcely
   account for the tearing of so heavy a Veil from the top to the bottom.
   Even the latter circumstance has its significance. That some great
   catastrophe, betokening the impending destruction of the Temple, had
   occurred in the Sanctuary about this very time, is confirmed by not
   less than four mutually independent testimonies: those of Tacitus,
   [6163] of Josephus, [6164] of the Talmud, [6165] and of earliest
   Christian tradition [6166] . The most important of these are, of
   course, the Talmud and Josephus. The latter speaks of the mysterious
   extinction of the middle and chief light in the Golden Candlestick,
   forty years before the destruction of the Temple; and both he and the
   Talmud refer to a supernatural opening by themselves of the great
   Temple-gates that had been previously closed, which was regarded as a
   portent of the coming destruction of the Temple. We can scarcely doubt,
   that some historical fact must underlie so peculiar and widespread a
   tradition, and we cannot help feeling that it may be a distorted
   version of the occurrence of the rending of the Temple-Veil (or of its
   report) at the Crucifixion of Christ. [6167]

   But even if the rending of the Temple-Veil had commenced with the
   earthquake, and, according to the Gospel to the Hebrews, with the
   breaking of the great lintel over the entrance, it could not be wholly
   accounted for in this manner. According to Jewish tradition, there
   were, indeed, two Veils before the entrance to the Most Holy Place.
   [6168] The Talmud explains this on the ground that it was not known,
   whether in the former Temple the Veil had hung inside or outside the
   entrance and whether the partition-wall had stood in the Holy or Most
   Holy Place. [6169] Hence (according to Maimonides) [6170] there was not
   any wall between the Holy and Most Holy Place, but the space of one
   cubit, assigned to it in the former Temple, was left unoccupied, and
   one Veil hung on the side of the Holy, the other on that of the Most
   Holy Place. According to an account dating from Temple-times, there
   were altogether thirteen Veils used in various parts of the Temple -
   two new ones being made every year. [6171] The Veils before the Most
   Holy Place were 40 cubits (60 feet) long, and 20 (30 feet) wide, of the
   thickness of the palm of the hand, and wrought in 72 squares, which
   were joined together; and these Veils were so heavy, that, in the
   exaggerated language of the time, it needed 3000 priests to manipulate
   each. If the Veil was at all such as is described in the Talmud, it
   could not have been rent in twain by a mere earthquake or the fall of
   the lintel, although its composition in squares fastened together might
   explain, how the rent might be as described in the Gospel.

   Indeed, everything seems to indicate that, although the earthquake
   might furnish the physical basis, the rent of the Temple-Veil was -
   with reverence be it said - really made by the Hand of God. As we
   compute, it may just have been the time when, at the Evening-Sacrifice,
   the officiating Priesthood entered the Holy Place, either to burn the
   incense or to do other sacred service there. To see before them, not as
   the aged Zacharias at the beginning of this history the Angel Gabriel,
   but the Veil of the Holy Place rent from top to bottom - that beyond it
   they could scarcely have seen - and hanging in two parts from its
   fastenings above and at the side, was, indeed, a terrible portent,
   which would soon become generally known, and must, in some form or
   other, have been preserved in tradition. And they all must have
   understood, that it meant that God's Own Hand had rent the Veil, and
   for ever deserted and thrown open that Most Holy Place where He had so
   long dwelt in the mysterious gloom, only lit up once a year by the glow
   of the censer of him, who made atonement for the sins of the people.
   [6172]

   Other tokens were not wanting. In the earthquake the rocks were rent,
   and their tombs opened. This, as Christ descended into Hades. And when
   He ascended on the third day, it was with victorious saints who had
   left those open graves. To many in the Holy City on that ever-memorable
   first day, and in the week that followed, appeared the bodies of many
   of those saints who had fallen on sleep in the sweet hope of that which
   had now become reality. [6173]

   But on those who stood under the Cross, and near it, did all that was
   witnessed make the deepest and most lasting impression. Among them we
   specially mark the Centurion under whose command the soldiers had been.
   Many a scene of horror must he have witnessed in those sad times of the
   Crucifixion, but none like this. Only one conclusion could force itself
   on his mind. It was that which, we cannot doubt, had made its
   impression on his heart and conscience. Jesus was not what the Jews,
   His infuriated enemies, had described Him. He was what He professed to
   be, what His bearing on the Cross and His Death attested Him to be:
   righteous,' and hence, the Son of God.' From this there was only a step
   to personal allegiance to Him, and, as previously suggested, we may
   possibly owe to him some of those details which St. Luke alone has
   preserved.

   The brief spring-day was verging towards the evening of the Sabbath.'
   In general, the Law ordered that the body of a criminal should not be
   left hanging unburied over night. [6174] Perhaps in ordinary
   circumstances the Jews might not have appealed so confidently to Pilate
   as actually to ask [6175] him to shorten the sufferings of those on the
   Cross, since the punishment of crucifixion often lasted not only for
   hours but days, ere death ensued. But here was a special occasion. The
   Sabbath about to open was a high-day' - it was both a Sabbath and the
   second Paschal Day, which was regarded as in every respect equally
   sacred with the first - nay, more so, since the so-called Wavesheaf was
   then offered to the Lord. And what the Jews now proposed to Pilate was,
   indeed, a shortening, but not in any sense a mitigation, of the
   punishment. Sometimes there was added to the punishment of crucifixion
   that of breaking the bones (crurifragium, skelokopa) by means of a club
   or hammer. This would not itself bring death, but the breaking of the
   bones was always followed by a coup de grâce, by sword, lance, or
   stroke (the perforatio or percussio sub alas), which immediately put an
   end to what remained of life. [6176] Thus the breaking of the bones'
   was a sort of increase of punishment, by way of compensation for its
   shortening by the final stroke that followed.

   It were unjust to suppose, that in their anxiety to fulfil the letter
   of the Law as to burial on the eve of that high Sabbath, the Jews had
   sought to intensify the sufferings of Jesus. The text gives no
   indication of this; and they could not have asked for the final stroke
   to be inflicted without the breaking of the bones,' which always
   preceded it. The irony of this punctilious care for the letter of the
   Law about burial and high Sabbath by those who had betrayed and
   crucified their Messiah on the first Passover-day is sufficiently
   great, and, let us add, terrible, without importing ficticious
   elements. St. John, who, perhaps, immediately on the death of Christ,
   left the Cross, alone reports circumstance. Perhaps it was when he
   concerted with Joseph of Arimathæa, with Nicodemus, or the two Marys,
   measures for the burying of Christ, that he learned of the Jewish
   deputation to Pilate, followed it to Prætorium, and then watched how it
   was all carried out on Golgotha. He records, how Pilate acceded to the
   Jewish demand, and gave directions for the crurifragium, and premission
   for the after-removal of the dead bodies, which otherwise might have
   been left to hang, till putrescence or birds of prey had destroyed
   them. But St. John also tells us what he evidently regards as so great
   a prodigy that he specially vouches for it, pledging his own veracity,
   as an eyewitness, and grounding on it an appeal to the faith of those
   to whom his Gospel is addressed. It is, that certain things came to
   pass [not as in our A. V., were done'] that the Scripture should be
   fulfilled,' or, to put it otherwise, by which the Scripture was
   fulfilled. These things were two, to which a third phenomenon, not less
   remarkable, must be added. For, first, when, in the crurifragium, the
   soldiers had broken the bones of two malefactors, and then came to the
   Cross of Jesus, they found that He was dead already, and so a bone of
   Him' was not broken.' Had it been otherwise, the Scripture concerning
   the Paschal Lamb, [6177] as well that concerning the Righteous
   Suffering Servant of Jehovah, [6178] would have been broken. In Christ
   alone these two ideas of the Paschal Lamb and the Righteous Suffering
   Servant of Jehovah are combined into a unity and fulfilled in their
   highest meaning. And when, by a strange concurrence of circumstances,
   it came to pass' that, contrary to what might have been expected, a
   bone of Him' was not broken' this outward fact served as the finger to
   point to the predictions which were fulfilled of Him.

   Not less remarkable is the second fact. If, on the Cross of Christ,
   these two fundamental ideas in the prophetic description of the work of
   the Messiah had been set forth: the fulfilment of the Paschal
   Sacrifice, which, as that of the Covenant, underlay all sacrifices, and
   the fulfilment of the ideal of the Righteous Servant of God, suffering
   in a world that hated God, and yet proclaimed and realising His
   Kingdom, a third truth remained to be exhibited. It was not in regard
   to the character, but the effects, of the Work of Christ - its
   reception, alike in the present and in the future. This had been
   indicated in the prophecies of Zechariah, [6179] which foretold how, in
   the day of Israel's final deliverance and national conversion, God
   would pour out the spirit of grace and of supplication, and as they
   shall look on Him Whom they pierced,' the spirit of true repentance
   would be granted them, alike nationally and individually. The
   application of this to Christ is the more striking, that even the
   Talmud refers the prophecy to the Messiah. [6180] And as these two
   things really applied to Christ, alike in His rejection and in His
   future return, [6181] so did the strange historical occurence at His
   Crucifixion once more point to it as the fulfilment of Scripture
   prophecy. For, although the soldiers, on finding Jesus dead, broke not
   one of His Bones, yet, as it was necessary to make sure of His Death,
   one of them, with a lance, pierced His Side,' with a wound so deep,
   that Thomas might afterwards have thrust his hand into His Side. [6182]

   And with these two, as fulfilling Holy Scripture, yet a third
   phenonmenon was associated, symbolic of both. As the soldier pierced
   the side of the Dead Christ, forthwith came there out Blood and Water.'
   It has been thought by some, [6183] that there was physical cause for
   this - that Christ had literally died of a broken heart, and that, when
   the lance pierced first the lung filled with blood and then the
   pericardium filled with serous fluid, [6184] there flowed from the
   wound this double stream. [6185] In such cases, the lesson would be
   that reproach had literally broken His Heart. [6186] But we can
   scarcely believe that St. John could have wished to convey this without
   clearly setting it forth - thus assuming on the part of his readers
   knowledge of an obscure, and, it must be added, a scientifically
   doubtful phenomenon. Accordingly, we rather believe that to St. John,
   as to most of us, the significance of the fact lay in this, that out of
   the Body of One dead had flowed Blood and Water - that corruption had
   not fastened on Him. Then, there would be the symbolic meaning conveyed
   by the Water (from the pericardium) and the Blood (from the heart) - a
   symbolism most true, if corruption had no power nor hold on Him - if in
   Death He was not dead, if He vanquished Death and Corruption, and in
   this respect also fulfilled the prophetic ideal of not seeing
   corruption. [6187] To this symbolic bearing of the flowing of Water and
   Blood from His pierced side, on which the Evangelist dwells in his
   Epistle, [6188] and to its external expression in the symbolism of the
   two Sacraments, we can only point the thoughtful Christian. For, the
   two Sacraments mean that Christ had come; that over Him, Who was
   crucified for us and loved us unto death with His broken heart, Death
   and Corruption had no power; and that He liveth for us with the
   pardoning and cleansing power of His offered Sacrifice.

   Yet one other scene remains to be recorded. Whether before, or, more
   probably, after the Jewish deputation to the Roman Governor, another
   and a strange application came to Pilate. It was from one apparently
   well known, a man not only of wealth and standing, [6189] whose noble
   bearing [6190] corresponded to his social condition, and who was known
   as a just and a good man. [6191] Joseph of Arimathæa was a Sanhedrist,
   [6192] but he had not consented either to the counsel or the deed of
   his colleagues. It must have been generally known that he was one of
   those which waited for the Kingdom of God.' But he had advanced beyond
   what that expression implies. Although secretly, for fear of the Jews.
   [6193] he was a disciple of Jesus. It is in strange contrast to this
   fear,' that St. Mark tells us, that, having dared,' [6194] he went in
   unto Pilate and asked for the Body of Jesus.' Thus, under circumstances
   the most unlikely and unfavorable, were his fears converted into
   boldness, and he, whom fear of the Jews had restrained from making open
   avowal of discipleship during the life-time of Jesus, not only
   professed such of the Crucified Christ, [6195] but took the most bold
   and decided step before Jews and Gentiles in connection with it. So
   does trial elicit faith, and the wind, which quenches the feeble flame
   that plays around the outside, fan into brightness the fire that burns
   deep within, though for a time unseen. Joseph of Arimathæa, now no
   longer a secret disciple, but bold in the avowal of his reverent love,
   would show to the Dead Body of his Master all veneration. And the
   Divinely ordered concurrence of circumstances not only helped his pious
   purpose, but invested all with deepest symbolic significance. It was
   Friday afternoon, and the Sabbath was drawing near. [6196] No time
   therefore was to be lost, if due honour were to be paid to the Sacred
   Body. Pilate give it to Joseph of Arimathæa. Such was within his power,
   and a favour not unfrequently accorded in like circumstances. [6197]
   But two things must have powerfully impressed the Roman Governor, and
   deepened his former thoughts about Jesus: first, that the death on the
   Cross had taken place so rapidly, a circumstance on which he personally
   questioned the Centurion, [6198] and then the bold appearance and
   request of such a man as Joseph of Arimathæa. [6199] Or did the
   Centurion express to the Governor also some such feeling as that which
   had found utterance under the Cross in the words: Truly this Man was
   the Son of God?'

   The proximity of the holy Sabbath, and the consequent need of haste,
   may have suggested or determined the proposal of Joseph to lay the Body
   of Jesus in his own rock-hewn new tomb, [6200] wherein no one had yet
   been laid. [6201] The symbolic significance of this is the more marked,
   that the symbolism was undersigned. These rock-hewn sepulchres, and the
   mode of laying the dead in them, have been very fully described in
   connection with the burying of Lazarus [6202] We may therefore wholly
   surrender overselves to the sacred thoughts that gather around us. The
   Cross was lowered and laid on the ground; the curel nails drawn out,
   and the ropes unloosed. Joseph, with those who attended him, wrapped'
   the Sacred Body in a clean linen cloth,' and rapidly carried It to the
   rock-hewn tomb in the garden close by. Such a rock-hewn tomb or cave
   (Meartha) had niches (Kukhin), where the dead were laid. It will be
   remembered, that at the entrance to the tomb' - and within the rock' -
   there was a court,' nine feet square, where ordinarly the bier was
   deposited, and its bearers gathered to do the last offices for the
   Dead. Thither we suppose Joseph to have carried the Sacred Body, and
   then the last scene to have taken place. For now another, kindered to
   Joseph in spirit, history, and position, had come. The same spiritual
   Law, which had brought Joseph to open confession, also constrained the
   profession of that other Sanhedrist, Nicodemus. We remember, how at the
   first he had, from fear of detection, come to Jesus by night, and with
   what bated breath he had pleaded with his colleagues not so much the
   cause of Christ, as on His behalf that of law and justice. [6203] He
   now came, bringing a roll' of myrrh and aloes, in the fragrant mixture
   well known to the Jews for purposes of anointing or burying.

   It was in the court' of the tomb that the hasty embalmment - if such it
   may be called - took place. None of Christ's former disciples seem to
   have taken part in the burying. John may have withdrawn to bring
   tidings to, and to comfort the Virgin-Mother; the others also, that had
   stood after off, beholding,' appear to have left. Only a few faithful
   ones, [6204] notably among them Mary Magdalene and the other Mary, the
   mother of Joses, stood over against the tomb, watching at some distance
   where and how the Body of Jesus was laid. It would scarcely have been
   in accordance with Jewish manners, if these women had mingled more
   closely with the two Sanhedrists and their attendants. From where they
   stood they could only have had a dim view of what passed within the
   court, and this may explain how, on their return, they prepared spices
   and ointments' [6205] for the more full honours which they hoped to pay
   the Dead after the Sabbath was past. [6206] For, it is of the greatest
   importance to remember, that haste characterised all that was done. It
   seems as if the clean linen cloth' in which the Body had been wrapped,
   was now torn into cloths' or swathes, into which the Body, limb by
   limb, was now bound,' [6207] no doubt, between layers of myrrh and
   aloes, the Head being wrapped in a napkin. And so they laid Him to rest
   in the inche of the rock-hewn new tomb. And as they went out, they
   rolled, as was the custom, a great stone' - the Golel - to close the
   entrance to the tomb, [6208] probably leaning against it for support,
   as was the practice, a smaller stone - the so-called Dopheq. [6209] It
   would be where the one stone was laid against the other, that on the
   next day, Sabbath though it was, the Jewish authorities would have
   affixed the seal, so that the slightest disturbance might become
   apparent. [6210]

            .            .                 .
   .                 .                .
   .                 .

   It was probably about the same time, that a noisy throng prepared  to
   follow delegates from the Sanhedrin to the ceremony of cutting the
   Passover-sheaf. The Law had it, "he shall bring a sheaf [literally, the
   Omer] with the first-fruits of your harvest, unto the priest; and he
   shall wave the Omer before Jehovah, to be accepted for you." This
   Passover-sheaf was reaped in public the evening before it was offered,
   and it was to witness this ceremony that the crowd had gathered around
   the elders. Already on the 14th Nisan the spot whence the first sheaf
   was to be reaped had been marked out, by tying together in bundles,
   while still standing, the barley that was to be cut down, according to
   custom, in the sheltered Ashes-Valley across Kidron. When the time for
   cutting the sheaf had arrived - that is, on the evening of the 15th
   Nisan, even though it were a Sabbath, just as the sun went down, three
   men, each with a sickle and basket, set to work. Clearly to bring out
   what was distinctive in the ceremony, they first asked of the
   bystanders three times each of these questions: "Has the sun gone
   down?" "With this sickle?" "Into this basket?" "On this Sabbath? (or
   first Passover-day)" - and, lastly, "shall I reap?" Having each time
   been answered in the affirmative, they cut down barley to the amount of
   one ephah, or about three pecks and three pints of our English measure.
   This is not the place to follow the ceremony farther - how the corn was
   threshed out, parched, ground, and one omer of the flour, mixed with
   oil and frankincense, waved before the Lord in the Temple on the second
   Paschal day (or 16th of Nisan). But, as this festive procession
   started, amidst loud demonstrations, a small band of mourners turned
   from having laid their dead Master in His resting-place. The contrast
   is as sad as it is suggestive. And yet, not in the Temple, nor by the
   priest, but in the silence of that garden-tomb, was the first Omer of
   the new Paschal flour to be waved before the Lord.' [6211]

              .                .               .
   .                  .                  .
   .                   .

   Now on the morrow, which is after the preparation [the Friday], the
   chief priests and the Pharisees were gathered together unto Pilate,
   saying, Sir, we remember that that deceiver said, which He was yet
   alive, After three days I rise again. Command, therefore, that the
   sephulchre be made sure until the third day, lest haply His disciples
   come and steal Him away, and say unto the people, He is risen from the
   dead: so the last error shall be worse than the first. Pilate said unto
   them, Take a guard, go your way, make it as sure as ye can. So they
   went, and made the sepulchre sure, sealing the stone, the guard being
   with them.'

              .              .                 .
   .                   .                  .
   .               .

   But was there really need for it? Did they, who had spent what remained
   of daylight to prepare spices wherewith to anoint the Dead Christ,
   expect His Body to be removed, or did they expect - perhaps in their
   sorrow even think of His word: I rise again?' But on that holy Sabbath,
   when the Sanhedrists were thinking of how to make sure of the Dead
   Christ, what were the thoughts of Joseph of Arimathæa and Nicodemus, of
   Peter and John, of the other disciples, and especially of the loving
   women who only waited for the first streak of Easter-light to do their
   last service of love? What were their thoughts of God - what of Christ
   - what of the Words He had spoken, the Deeds He had wrought, the
   salvation He had come to bring, and the Kingdom of Heaven which He was
   to open to all believers?

   Behind Him had closed the gates of Hades; but upon them rather than
   upon Him had fallen the shadows of death. Yet they still loved Him -
   and stronger than death was love.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [6034] St. John xix. 16.

   [6035] ver. 6.

   [6036] St. Mark xv. 95.

   [6037] St. John xix. 25.

   [6038] The evidence is collected by Nebe, u. s. vol. ii. p. 166, 167.

   [6039] Keim seems to imagine that, not indeed the whole cohort,' but a
   manipulus of about 120, or a centuria of about 60 men, accompanied the
   procession. But of this there is not evidence, and all indications lead
   to a contrary inference.

   [6040] Tradition calls him Longinus.

   [6041] This was the Jewish practice also (Sanh. vi. 2). At the same
   time it must be remembered, that this was chiefly to elicit testimony
   in favour of the criminal, when the execution would be immediately
   arrested; and also that, as the Sanhedrin had, for centuries before the
   redaction of the Mishnah, been deprived of the power of life and death,
   such descriptions read very like ideal arrangements. But the practice
   seems also to have been Roman (per præconem pronunciati').

   [6042] Such as concerning Veronica and the bearing of the Virgin-Mother
   (Acta Pilati, vii. x.; Mors Pilati [Tischendorf] 433).

   [6043] Jos. Ant. xiii. 14, 2; War i, 4, 6.

   [6044] With application of Lev. xix. 26, Sanh. 63 a.

   [6045] Sanh. vi. 4.

   [6046] This explains how the witnesses' at the stoning of St. Stephen
   laid down their garments at the feet of Paul.

   [6047] Sanh. vi. 3, 4.

   [6048] This opinion, however, was not shared by the majority of Rabbis.
   But, as already stated, all those notices are rather ideal than real.

   [6049] According to the Rabbis, when we read in Scripture generally of
   the punishment of death, this refers to the lighest, or strangulation
   (Sanh. 52 b). Another mode of execution reads like something between
   immuring alive and starvation (Sanh. 81 b) - something like the manner
   in which in the Middle Ages people were starved to death.

   [6050] Heb. xiii 12.

   [6051] St. John xix. 20.

   [6052] This view was first propounded by Thenius, and afterwards
   advocated by Furrer (Wander. d. Paläst, pp. 70, &c.), but afterwards
   given up by him. As to the locality, comp. Quart. Statement of Pal.
   Explor. Fund,' Oct. 1881, pp.317-319; Conder's Handbook to the Bible,'
   pp. 355, 356, and for the description of Jeremiah's Grotto,
   Bäedeker-Socin, u. s. p. 126. Of course, proof is in the nature of
   things impossible; yet to me this seems the most sacred and precious
   locality in Jerusalem.

   [6053] St. Luke.

   [6054] I cannot conceive any sufficient ground, why Keim should deny
   the historical character of this trait. Surely, on Keim's own
   principles, the circumstance, that only St. Luke records it, would not
   warrant this inference. On the other hand, it may be characterised as
   perhaps one of the most natural incidents in the narrative.

   [6055] I can only account for it by the prejudices of party feeling,
   that one of such fine and sympathetic tact as Keim should so strangely
   have missed this, and imputed, especially to St. John, a desire of
   obscuring the element of weakness and forsakenness (u. s. p. 401).

   [6056] See vol. i. pp. 62, 63, 119.

   [6057] Certainly not from the field.' The original, it is now generally
   admitted, does not mean this, and, as Wieseler aptly remarks (Beitr. p.
   267) a person would scarcely return from labour in the field at nine
   o'clock in the morning (St. Mark xv. 25).

   [6058] This is shown in Tosaph. to Chag. 17 b, and admitted by all
   Rabbinic writers. (See Hoffmann, Abh. u.d. Pentat. Ges. p. 66.)

   [6059] St. Mark xv. 21.

   [6060] Acts xiii. 1; Rom. xvi. 13.

   [6061] xv. 22.

   [6062] phrousin.

   [6063] St. Luke xxiii. 27-31.

   [6064] kptonto ka thrnoun atn. Gerhard remarks: ut kptesthai sive
   plangere est manuum (Bengel: pertinet ad gestus), ita threnen est oris
   et oculorum (Bengel: ad, fletum et vocem flebilem).'

   [6065] as St. Luke also records.

   [6066] Hos. ix. 14.

   [6067] War vi. 3. 4.

   [6068] Hos. x. 8.

   [6069] Rev. vi. 10.

   [6070] But Nebe denies the use of ladders, and, in general, tries to
   prove by numerous quotations that the whole Cross was first erected,
   and then the Sufferer lifted up to it, and, only after that, the nails
   fastened into His Arms and Feet. Strange though it may seem, the
   question cannot be absolutely decided.

   [6071] Mass Sem. ii. 9; Bemid. R. 10.

   [6072] Sanh. 43 a.

   [6073] The two alleged discrepancies, between St. Matthew and St. Mark,
   though, even if they did exist, scarcely worth mention, may be thus
   explained: 1. If St. Matthew wrote vinegar' (although the best MSS.
   read wine'), he, no doubt, so translated literally the word Chomets
   ({hebrew}) which, though literally, vinegar,' refers to an inferior
   kind of wine which was often mixed (comp. Pes. 42 b). 2. If our Greek
   text of St. Matthew speaks of wormwood' (as in the LXX.) - not gall' -
   and St. Mark of myrrh, we must remember, that both may have been
   regarded as stupefying, perhaps both used, and that possibly the
   mistake may have arisen from the similarity of words and their writing
   - Lebhonah, myrrh,' Laanah, wormwood' - when {hebrew} may have passed
   into {hebrew} - the {hebrew} into {hebrew}.

   [6074] Sepp, vol. vi. p. 336, recalls the execution of Savonarola
   between Fra Silvestro and Fra Domenico, and the taunt of his enemies:
   Now, brother!'

   [6075] Professor Westcott beautifully remarks: These three languages
   gathered up the result of the religious, the social, the intellectual
   preparation for Christ, and in each witness was given to His office.

   [6076] See next page, note 1.

   [6077] The better reading there is, basiles tn 'Ioudaon otos.

   [6078] H.E. v. 1.

   [6079] Probably it would read Jeshu han-Notsri malka dihudaey ({hebrew}
   - or else {hebrew} - {hebrew}). Both have four words and, in all,
   twenty letters. The Latin inscription (St. Matthew) would be, Hic est
   Jesus Rex Judæorum - five words and twenty-two letters. It will be seen
   how each would fill a line of about the same length. The notice of the
   three languages in St. Luke is spurious. We retain the textus receptus
   of St. John xix. 19, as in any case it seems most unlikely that Pilate
   would have placed the Latin in the middle and not at the top. The
   Aramæan would stand last.

   [6080] St. John xix. 21, 22.

   [6081] Comp. here the account of St. Matt. (xxvii. 39-43) and of the
   other Synoptists.

   [6082] Thus, the notice in St. John xix. 21, 22, would be parenthetic,
   chronologically belonging to an earlier part, and inserted here for the
   sake of historical connection.

   [6083] It is generally stated, that this was the common Roman custom.
   But of this there is no evidence, and in later times it was expressly
   forbidden (Ulpianus, Digest. xiviii. 20, 6). I cannot see how Keim,
   and, after him, Nebe, should infer from this as certain, that the law
   had formerly been the opposite.

   [6084] Strangely, I confess, to my thinking, they seem to have been a
   source of anxiety and distress to St. Augustine, that he might find
   their true conciliation.

   [6085] It is deeply significant that the dress of the priests was not
   sewed but woven (Zehbach. 88 a), and especially so that of the
   High-Priest (Yoma 72 b). According to tradition, during the seven days
   of consecration, Moses ministered in a seamless white dress, woven
   throughout. (Taan. 11 b.)

   [6086] It is impossible to determine in what manner this was done. The
   various modes of casting the lot are described by Adam, Roman Antiq.
   pp. 397-399. Possibly, however, it was much more simple and rough than
   any of these.

   [6087] Ps. xxii. 18.

   [6088] Strauss calls Ps. xxii. the programme of the Passion of Christ.'
   We may accept the description, though not in his sense.

   [6089] The Scripture quotation in the t. r. of St. Matthew, and, in all
   probability, that also in St. Mark, is spurious.

   [6090] Altogether there are fifteen such quotations in the Fourth
   Gospel. Of these at most only two (St. John vi. 31 and vii. 38) could
   be described as Alexandrian in character, the rest are truly Judaic.

   [6091] The genuineness of these words has been called in question. But
   alike external and internal evidence demands their retention.

   [6092] Comp. Acts iii. 17, 1 Cor. ii. 8.

   [6093] It would be presumptuous to seek to determine how far that
   prayer extended. Generally - I agree with Nebe - to all (Gentiles and
   Jews) who, in their participation in the sufferings inflicted on Jesus,
   acted in ignorance.

   [6094] In reference to this St. Augustine writes: Sanguinem Christi,
   quem sævientes fuderunt, credentes biberunt.' The question why Christ
   did not Himself forgive, but appeal for it to the Father, is best
   answered by the consideration, that it was really a crimen læsæ
   majestatis against the Father, and that the vindication of the Son lay
   with God the Father.

   [6095] St. Matthew.

   [6096] St. Luke.

   [6097] The two Evangelists designate by this very word the bearing of
   the passersby, rendered in the A.V. reviled' and railed.'

   [6098] The peculiarities in it are (besides the titulus): what passed
   on the procession to Golgotha (St. Luke xxiii. 27-31); the prayer, when
   affixed to the Cross (ver. 34 a); the bearing of the soldiers (vv. 36,
   37); the conversion of the penitent thief; and the last words on the
   Cross (ver. 46).

   [6099] There is no evidence, that the Centurion was still present when
   the soldier came' to pierce the Saviour's side (St. John xix. 31-37).

   [6100] So from the peculiar details and O.T. quotations.

   [6101] St. Matt. xxvii. 42.

   [6102] The word if' (if He) in our A.V. is spurious.

   [6103] This is the literal rendering. The will have Him' = has pleasure
   in Him, like the German: Wenn Er Ihn will.'

   [6104] Ps. xxii.

   [6105] See Appendix IX.

   [6106] Ps. xxii. 7.

   [6107] Yalkut on Is. lx. vol. ii. p. 56 d, lines 12 &c, from bottom.

   [6108] Meyer actually commits himself to the statement, that Ps. xxii.
   was not Messianically applied by the Jews.  Other writers follow his
   lead. The objection, that the Sanhedrists could not have quoted this
   verse, as it would have branded them as the wicked persions described
   in the Psalm, has no force when we remember the loose way in which the
   Jews were in the habit of quoting the Old Testament.

   [6109] The words, with them,' in St. Luke xxiii. 35, are spurious.

   [6110] St. Mark introduces the mocking speeches (xv. 29) by the
   particle o (Ah') which occurs only here in the N.T. It is evidently the
   Latin Vah,' an exclamation of ironical admiration. (See Bengel and
   Nebe, ad loc.) The words literally were: Ha! the downbreaker of the
   sanctuary and upbuilding it in three days, save Thyself.' Except the
   introductory particle and the order of the words, the words are the
   same in St. Matthew. The katalon is used in the sense of a substantive
   (comp. Winer, Gram. p. 122, and especially p. 316).

   [6111] The language of St. Matthew and St. Mark is quite general, and
   refers to the thieves;' that of St. Luke is precise and detailed. But I
   cannot agree with those who, for the sake of harmony,' represent the
   penitent thief as joining in his comrade's blasphemy before turning to
   Christ. I do not deny, that such a sudden change might have taken
   place; but there is no evidence for it in the text, and the supposition
   of the penitent thief first blaspheming gives rise to many
   incongruities, and does not seem to fit into the text.

   [6112] Tradition names the impenitent thief Gestas, which Keim
   identifies with stegans, silenced, hardened - although the derivation
   seems to me forced. The penitent thief is called Dysmas, which I would
   propose to derive from dusm in the sense of the setting,' viz, of the
   sun: he who turns to the setting sun. Sepp very fancifully regards the
   penitent thief as a Greek (Japhetisch), the impenitent as a negro.

   [6113] So according to the right reading.

   [6114] See the quotations in Nebe, ii. 258.

   [6115] Dost not thou even fear God, seeing thou art in the same
   condemnation?' Condemnation here means that to which one is condemned:
   the sufferings of the cross; and the expostulation is: Suffering as
   thou art like Him and me, canst thou join in the jeers of the crowd?
   Dost thou not even fear God - should not fear of Him now creep over thy
   soul, or at least prevent thee from insulting the dying Sufferer? And
   this all the more, since the circumstances are as immediately
   afterwards described.

   [6116] Fully to understand it, we ought to realise what would be the
   Jewish ideas of the penitent thief,' and what his understanding of the
   words of Christ. Broadly, one would say, that as a Jew he would expect
   that his death would be expiation of his sins.' Thoughts of need of
   forgiveness through the Messiah would not therefore come to him. But
   the words of Christ must have supplied all this. Again when Christ
   spoke of Paradise,' His hearer would naturally understand that part of
   Hades in which the spirits of the righteous dwelt till the
   Ressurection. On both these points there are so many passages in
   Rabbinic writings tht it is needless to quote (see for ex. Westein, ad
   loc., and our remarks on the Parable of Lazarus and Dives). Indeed, the
   prayer: let my death be the expiation of my sins, is still in the
   Jewish office for the dying, and the underlying dogma is firmly rooted
   in Rabbinic belief. The words of our Lord, so far from encouraging this
   belief, would teach him that admission to Paradise was to be granted by
   Christ. It is scarcely necessary to add, that Christ's words in no way
   encouraged the realistic conceptions which Judaism attached to Paradise
   ({hebrew}). In Biblical Hebrew the word is used for a choice garden: in
   Eccl. ii. 5; Cant. iv. 13; Nehem. ii. 8. But in the LXX. and the Apocr.
   the word is already used in our sense of Paradise. Lastly, nothing
   which our Lord had said to the penitent thief' about being to-day' with
   Him in Paradise, is in any way inconsistent with, rather confirms, the
   doctrine of the Descent into Hades.

   [6117] St. John xix. 2-16.

   [6118] vv. 17-24.

   [6119] The first impression left is, of course, that the brothers' of
   Jesus were not yet, at least in the full sense, believers. But this
   does not by any means necessarily follow, since both the presence of
   John under the Cross, and even his outward circumstances, might point
   him out as the most fit custodian of the Virgin-Mother. At the same
   time it seems the more likely supposition, that the brothers of Jesus
   were converted by the appearance to James of the Risen One (1 Cor. xv.
   7).

   [6120] St. John xix. 25-27.

   [6121] This view is now generally adopted.

   [6122] St. Matt. xxvii. 55.

   [6123] St. Mark xv. 40, 41.

   [6124] There is, of course, the difficulty that Judas (Lebbæus) and
   Simon Zelotes are not here mentioned as her sons. But they may have
   been her stepheons, or there may have other reasons for the omission.
   Judas of James' could scarcely have been the son of James, and Simon is
   expressly mentioned by Hegesippus as the son of Clopas.

   [6125] St. Mark.

   [6126] St. Matthew.

   [6127] Hegesippus in Euseb. H.E. iii. 11 and iv. 22.

   [6128] Alphæus and Clopas are the same name. The first occurs in the
   Babylon Talmud as Ilphai, or Ilpha ({hebrew}), as in R. haSh. 17 b, and
   often; the other in the Jerusalem Talmud as Chilphai ({hebrew}), as for
   ex. in Jer. B. Kama 7 a.

   [6129] I regard the Simon Zelotes of the list of Apostles as the Simon
   son of Clopas, or Alphæus, of Hegesippus - first, because of his
   position in the lists of the Apostles along with the two other sons of
   Alphæus; secondly, because, as there were only two prominent Simons in
   the N.T. (the brother of the Lord, and Zelotes), and Hegesippus
   mentions him as the son of Clopas, it follows that the Simon son of
   Clopas was Simon Zelotes. Levi Matthew was, indeed, also a son of
   Alphæus, but we regard this as another Clopas than the husband of Mary.

   [6130] Incongruous though the interruption be, we cannot help noticing
   that the introduction of such a scene seems inconsistent with the whole
   theory of an Ephesian authorship of the Fourth Gospel. On the other
   hand, it displays evidence of the true human interest of an actor in
   the scene.

   [6131] Nothing is really known of the later history of the Blessed
   Virgin.

   [6132] St. John xix. 28.

   [6133] I do not think the testimony of Phlegon, as quoted by Eusebius,
   is available (see the discussion in Wieseler's Synopse, p. 387, note
   1). Still, if the astronomical calculations of Ideler and Wurm are
   correct, the eclipse' recorded by Phlegon [whether eclipse' in the
   scientific sense, or darkness,'] would have taken place in the very
   year of our Lord's death, A.D. 29, but, as they reckon, on November 24.
   I do not posses the special knowledge requisite to verify these
   calculations; but that it is described by Phlegon as an eclipse' -
   which this could not have been - does not necessarily invalidate the
   argument, since he might have used the term inaccurately. It is in this
   sense that St. Luke (xxiii. 45) uses the verb - that is, if we adopt
   the amended reading. What Nebe writes on this subject (vol. ii. p.
   301), and the illustrations of the popular use of the word from Pliny
   and Plutarch, deserve the most serious consideration. But, I repeat, I
   cannot attach weight in this argument to such testimonies, nor yet to
   the sayings of Origen, Tertullian, &c., nor to the Acta Pilati (the
   ecclesiastical testimonies are discussed by Nebe, u. s. p. 299).

   [6134] St. Matt. xxvii. 51.

   [6135] There are frequent notices in classical writers of eclipses
   preceding disastrous events or the death of great men, such as of Cæsar
   (Nebe, u. s. p. 300). But these were, if correctly related, eclipses in
   the true sense, and, as such, natural events, having in no way a
   supernatural bearing, and hence in no sense analogous to this darkness'
   at the Crucifixion.

   [6136] So Strauss (after Wetstein) and even Keim. Painful as
   controversy is in connection with the last hours of Jesus, I would not
   have shrunk from contesting the positions of Keim, if I had not felt
   that every unprejudiced person must see, that most of them are mere
   assertions, without an attempt at anything like historical evidence.

   [6137] Strauss (ii. p. 556), and more fully Keim (iii. p. 438, Note 3),
   quote Joel ii. 10, 31; Amos viii. 9; Is. xiii. 10; 1. 3; Job ix. 7;
   Jer. xv. 9. Of these passages some have no bearing, however remote, on
   the subject, while the others refer not to the Messiah but to the final
   judgement.

   [6138] To be quite fair, I will refer to all the passages quoted in
   connection with the darkening of the sun as a token of mourning. The
   first (quoted by Wetstein) is from the Midrash on Lament. iii. 28 (ed.
   Warsh. p. 72 a). But the passage, evidently a highly figurative one,
   refers to the destruction of Jerusalem and the dispersion of Israel,
   and, besides the darkening of the sun, moon, and stars (not the sun
   only), refers to a realistic fulfilment of Nah. i. 3 and Lament. iii.
   28 in God's walking in dust and keeping silence. The second quotation
   of Wetstein, that when a great Rabbi dies it is as portentous as if the
   sun went down at midday - has manifestly no bearing whatever on the
   matter in hand (though Strauss adduces it). The last and only quotation
   really worth mention is from Sukk. 29 a. In a somewhat lengthened
   statement there, the meaning of an obscuration of the sun or moon is
   discussed. I have here to remark (1) that these phenomena are regarded
   as signs' in the sense of betokening coming judgments, such as war,
   famine, &c., and that these are supposed to affect various nations
   according as the eclipse is towards the rising or setting of the sun.
   The passage therefore can have no possible connection with such a
   phenomenon as the death of Messiah. (2) This is further confirmed by
   the enumeration of certain sins for which heavenly luminaries are
   eclipsed. Some are not fit for mention, while others are such as false
   witness-bearing, the needless cutting down of fruit-trees, &c. (3) But
   the unfairness, as well as the inaptitude, of the quotation appears
   from this, that only the beginning of the passage is quoted (Strauss
   and Keim): At a time when the sun is obscured, it is an evil sign to
   all the world,' while what follows is omitted: When the sun is
   obscured, it is an evil sign to the nations of the world; when the moon
   is obscured, it is an evil sign to Israel, because Israel reckons
   according to the moon, the nations of the world according to the sun.'
   And yet Wünsche (Erlauter. pp. 355, 356) quotes both that which
   precedes and that which follows this passage, but leaves out this
   passage itself. (Comp. Mechilta, p. 3 b.)

   [6139] These are described with terrible realism by Keim.

   [6140] aonan ltrosin, Hebr. ix. 12.

   [6141] ltron, St. Matt. xx. 28.

   [6142] 1 Pet. i. 19.

   [6143] Tit. ii. 14.

   [6144] ntlutron pr pnton 1 Tim. ii. 6.

   [6145] pr pnton, 2 Cor. v. 15.

   [6146] Gal. iii. 13.

   [6147] So in St. Matthew, according to the best reading. In St. Mark,
   Eloi, Eloi [apparently the Syriac form], lema sabachthanei? Might it be
   that St. Matthew represents the current Judæan or Galilean dialect, and
   St. Mark the Syrian, and that this casts light alike on the dialects in
   Palestine at the time of Christ, and even, to some extent, on the
   composition of the Gospels, and the land in which they were written?
   The Targum renders Ps. xxii. 2: Eli, Eli, metul mah shebhaqtani? (On
   account of what hast Thou forsaken me?').

   [6148] This in the extreme agony of soul, not to mark His Divinity.

   [6149] About the ninth hour.' I cannot bring myself here to discuss the
   supposed analogous quotations of Ps. xxii. 1 in Rabbinic writings. The
   comparison is equally inapt and irreverent.

   [6150] St. John xix. 28.

   [6151] The words last quoted can, of course, and have by most writers
   been connected with the thirst of Christ, as the fulfilment of Ps.
   lxix. 21. But the structure of the sentence leads rather to the
   punctuation adopted in the text, while I have the greatest difficulty
   in applying Ps. lxix. 21 in the manner proposed, and still more grave
   objection to the idea that Christ uttered the words in order to fulfil
   the Psalm, although the word that' must, as previously shown (p. 503),
   not be taken in the sense of in order that.' There is, of course, a
   tertium quid, and the Evangelist may be supposed to have expressed only
   his own sense that the Scripture was fulfilled, when he saw the thirst
   of the Saviour quenched in the vinegar' of the soldiers. But in that
   case we should expect the words that the Scripture might be fulfilled,'
   placed after the I thirst.'

   [6152] St. Luke xxiii. 49.

   [6153] Whether or not he heard the words of the cry.

   [6154] Comp. Tristram Nat. Hist. of the Bible, p. 457.

   [6155] St. Matt. xxvii. 48, 49; St. Mark xv. 36.

   [6156] St. John.

   [6157] St. Luke.

   [6158] St. Mark xv. 39.

   [6159]        En pessima, non tu Pervenis ad Christum, sed Christus
   pervenit ad te, Cui licuit sine morte mori. Sedulius.

   [6160] So according to the better reading.

   [6161] Comp. the use of the verb paratthemi in such passages as St.
   Luke xii. 48; Acts xiv. 23; xx. 32; 1 Tim. i. 18; 2 Tim. ii. 2.

   [6162] 1 Pet. iii. 18, 19.

   [6163] Hist. v. 13.

   [6164] Jew. War vi. 5. 3.

   [6165] Jer. Yoma 43 c; Yoma 39 b.

   [6166] So in the Gospel according to the Hebrews, from which St. Jerome
   quotes (in Matt. xxvii. 51, and in a letter to Hedibia) to the effect,
   that the huge lintel of the Temple was broken and splintered, and fell.
   St. Jerome connects the rending of the Veil with this, and it would
   seem an obvious inference to connect again this breaking of the lintel
   with an earthquake.

   [6167] A story is told in Jewish tradition (Gitt, 56 b, about the
   middle; Ber. R. 10; Vayyik. R. 22, and in other places) to the effect
   that, among other vilenesses, Titus the wicked' had penetrated into the
   Sanctuary, and cut through the Veil of the Most Holy Place with his
   sword, when blood dropped down. I mention the legend to express my
   emphatic protest against the manner in which Dr. Joel (Blicke in d.
   Religionsgesch. i. pp. 7, 8, treating of the passage in the Midr. on
   Lam. ii. 17) has made use of it. He represents it, as if the Veil had
   been rent (Zerreissen des Vorhanges bei d. Tempelzerstörung) - not cut
   through by Titus, and on the basis of this misrepresentation has the
   boldness to set a legend about Titus side by side with the Evangelic
   account of the rending of the Temple-Veil! I write thus strongly
   because I am sorry to say that this is by no means the only instance in
   which Jewish writers adapt their quotations to controversial purposes.
   Joel refers to Dr. Sachs, Beitr. i. p. 29, but that learned writer
   draws no such inference from the passage in question.

   [6168] Yoma v. 1.

   [6169] Yoma 51 b.

   [6170] Hilkh. Beth ha-Bech, iv. 2, ed. Amst. vol. iii. p. 149 b.

   [6171] Yoma 54 a Kethub. 106 a; Sheqal. viii. 5.

   [6172] May this phenomenon account for the early conversion of so many
   priests recorded in Acts vi. 7?

   [6173] I dare not express myself dogmatically on the precise import of
   St. Matt. xxvii. 52, 53. Does it mean that they were actually clothed
   with the Resurrection-body, or with the body which they had formerly
   borne, or that many saints from out Hades appeared to those who loved
   them, and with them had waited for the Kingdom, in the forms which they
   had known? We know too little of the connection between the other world
   and this, and the mode in which the departed may communicate with those
   here, to venture on any decided statement, especially as we take into
   account the unique circumstances of the occasion.

   [6174] Deut. xxi. 23; comp. Jos. War iv. 5. 2.

   [6175] rtesan, they asked,' St. John xix. 31.

   [6176] Comp. Friedlieb, Archæol. d. Leidensgesch. pp.163-168; but
   especially Nebe, u. s. ii. pp. 394, 395.

   [6177] Ex. xii. 46; Numb. ix. 12.

   [6178] Ps. xxxiv. 20.

   [6179] Zech. xii. 10

   [6180] Sukk. 52 a.

   [6181] Rev. i. 7.

   [6182] St. John xx. 27.

   [6183] So, with various modifications, which need not here be detailed,
   first, Dr. Gruner (Comment. Antiq. Med. de Jesu Christ Morte, Hal.
   1805), who, however, regarded Jesus as not quite dead when the lance
   pierced the heart, and, of late, Dr. Stroud (The Physical Cause of the
   Death of Christ, 1871), and many interpreters (see Nebe, u.s. pp. 400,
   401).

   [6184] But certainly not through a separation of the serum and the
   cruor, which is the mark of beginning putrefaction.

   [6185] The fullest and most satisfactory physical explanation is that
   given by the Rev. S. Haughton, M.D., and reprinted in the Speaker's
   Commentary on 1 John, pp. 349, 350. It demonstrates, that this
   phenomenon would take place, but only if a person who was also being
   crucified died of rupture of the heart.

   [6186] Ps. lxix. 20.

   [6187] Ps. xvi. 10.

   [6188] 1 John v. 6.

   [6189] St. Matthew.

   [6190] This seems implied in the expression eschmon (A.V. honourable'),
   St. Mark xv. 43.

   [6191] St. Luke.

   [6192] Taken in connection with St. Luke xxiii. 51, this is probably
   the meaning of bouleuts. Otherwise we would have regarded him rather as
   a member of the Council of Priests' (Beth Din shel Kohanim, Kethub. i.
   5) which met in what anciently was called the Lishkath Bulvatin
   (Chamber of Councillors) in the Temple (Jer. Yoma 38 c; Yoma 8 b). The
   Greek work itself has passed into Rabbinic language as Bulyutos, and in
   other modifications of the word.

   [6193] St. John.

   [6194] tolmsas.

   [6195] At the same time I feel, that this might have been represented
   by the Jews as not quite importing what it really was - as rather an
   act of pietas towards the Rabbi of Nazareth than of homage to the
   Messiahship of Jesus.

   [6196] The mra paraskeus in connection with the Sabbath' (St. Luke
   xxiii. 54) shows, that the former expression refers to the preparation'
   for the Sabbath, or the Friday.

   [6197] See the proof in Wetstein, ad loc.

   [6198] St. Mark.

   [6199] The Arimathæa of Joseph is probably the modern Er-Ram, two hours
   north of Jerusalem, on a conical hill, somewhat east of the road that
   leads from Jerusalem to Nablus (Jos. Ant. viii. 12. 3) - the Armathaim
   of the LXX. The objection of Keim (which it would take too long to
   discuss in a note) are of no force (comp. his Jesu von Naz. iii. p.
   516). It is one of the undesigned evidences of the accuracy of St.
   Luke, that he described it as belonging to Judæa. For, whereas Ramah in
   Mount Ephraim originally belonged to Samaria, it was afterwards
   seprated from the latter and joined to the province of Judæa (comp. 1
   Macc. x. 38; xi. 28, 34).

   [6200] Meyer regards the s statement of St. Matthew to the effect
   (xxvii. 60) as inconsistent with the notice in St. John xix. 42. I
   really cannot see any inconsistency, nor does his omission of the fact
   that the tomb was Joseph's seem to me fatal. The narrative of St. John
   is concentrated on the burying rather than its accessories. Professor
   Westcott thinks that St. John xix. 41, implies that the sepulcher in
   which the Lord was laid was not chosen as His final resting-place.' But
   of this also I do not perceive evidence.

   [6201] St. Luke.

   [6202] See Book IV. ch. xxi.

   [6203] St. John vii. 50.

   [6204] St. Luke.

   [6205] St. Luke.

   [6206] St. John computes it at about 100 litras. As in all likelihood
   this would refer to Roman pounds, of about twelve ounces each, the
   amount is large, but not such as to warran any reasonable objection. a
   servant could easily carry it, and it is not said that it was all used
   in the burying. If it were possible to find any similar use of the
   expression (ltras), one might be tempted to regard the litras as
   indicating not the weight, but a coin. In that sense the word litra is
   used, sometimes as = 100 denars, in which case 100 litras would be =
   about 250 l., but more frequently as = 4 drachms, in which case 100
   litras would be=about 12l. (comp. Herzfeld. Handelsgesch. p. 181). But
   the linguistic difficulty seems very great, while any posible objection
   to the weight of the spices is really inconsiderable. For the kind of
   spices used in the burying, see Book IV. ch. xxi. (as the burying of
   Lazarus). In later times there was a regular rubric and prayers with
   Kabbalistic symbolism (see Perles, Leichenfeierlichk. p. 11, Note 12).
   No doubt, the wounds in theSacred Body of our Lord had been washed from
   their gore.

   [6207] The Synopists record, that the Body of Jesus was wrapped' in a
   linen cloth;' St. John tells us that it was bound' with the aloes and
   myrrh of Nicodemus into swathes' or cloths,' even as they were found
   afterwards in the empty tomb, and by their side the napkin,' or
   soudarion, for the head. I have tried to combine the account of the
   Synoptists and that of St. John into a continuous narrative.

   [6208] Sanh. 47 b.

   [6209] Ohai. ii. 4.

   [6210] But it must be admitted, that there are difficulties on this
   particular. See the remarks on this point at pp. 623 and 631, but
   especially pp, 636, 637.

   [6211] See The Temple and its Services,' pp. 221-224.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XVI.
ON THE RESURRECTION OF CHRIST FROM THE DEAD.

   The history of the Life of Christ upon earth closes with a Miracle as
   great as that of its inception. It may be said that the one casts light
   upon the other. If He was what the Gospels represent Him, He must have
   been born of a pure Virgin, without sin, and He must have risen from
   the Dead. If the story of His Birth be true, we can believe that of His
   Resurrection; if that of His Resurrection be true, we can believe that
   of His Birth. In the nature of things, the latter was incapable of
   strict historical proof; and, in the nature of things, His Resurrection
   demanded and was capable of the fullest historical evidence. If such
   exists, the keystone is given to the arch; the miraculous Birth becomes
   almost a necessary postulate, and Jesus is the Christ in the full sense
   of the Gospels. And yet we mark, as another parallel point between the
   account of the miraculous Birth and that of the Resurrection, the utter
   absence of details as regards these events themselves. If this
   circumstance may be taken as indirect evidence that they were not
   legendary, it also imposes on us the duty of observing the reverent
   silence so well-befitting the case, and not intruding beyond the path
   which the Evangelic narrative has opened to us.

   That path is sufficiently narrow, and in some respects difficult; not,
   indeed, as to the great event itself, nor as to its leading features,
   but as to the more minute details. And here, again, our difficulties
   arise, not so much from any actual disagreement, as from the absence of
   actual identity. Much of this is owning to the great compression in the
   various narratives, due partly to the character of the event narrated,
   partly to the incomplete information possessed by the narrators - of
   whom only one was strictly an eyewitness, but chiefly to this, that to
   the different narrators the central point of interest lay in one or the
   other aspect of the circumstances connected with the Resurrection. Not
   only St. Matthew, [6212] but also St. Luke, so compresses the narrative
   that the distinction of points of time' is almost effaced. St. Luke
   seems to crowd into the Easter Evening what himself tells us occupied
   forty days. [6213] His is, so to speak, the pre-eminently Jerusalem
   account of the evidence of the Resurrection; that of St. Matthew the
   pre-eminently Galilean account of it. Yet each implies and corroborates
   the facts of the other. [6214] In general we ought to remember, that
   the Evangelists, and afterwards St. Paul, are not so much concerned to
   narrate the whole history of the Resurrection as to furnish the
   evidence for it. And here what is distinctive in each is also
   characteristic of his special view-point. St. Matthew describes the
   impression of the full evidence of that Easter morning on friend and
   foe, and then hurries us from the Jerusalem stained with Christ's Blood
   back to the sweet Lake and the blessed Mount where first He spake. It
   is, as if he longed to realise the Risen Christ in the scenes where he
   had learned to know Him. St. Mark, who is much more brief, gives not
   only a mere summary, [6215] but, if one might use the expression, tells
   it as from the bosom of the Jerusalem family, from the house of his
   mother Mary. [6216] St. Luke seems to have made most full inquiry as to
   all the facts of the Resurrection, and his narrative might almost be
   inscribed: Easter Day in Jerusalem.' St. John paints such scenes -
   during the whole forty days, whether in Jerusalem or Galilee - as were
   most significant and teachful of this threefold lesson of his Gospels:
   that Jesus was the Christ, that He was the Son of God, and that,
   believing, we have life in His Name. Lastly, St. Paul - as one born out
   of due time - produces the testimony of the principal witnesses to the
   fact, in a kind of ascending climax. [6217] And this the more
   effectively, that he is evidently aware of the difficulties and the
   import of the question, and has taken pains to make himself acquainted
   with all the facts of the case.

   The question is of such importance, alike in itself and as regards this
   whole history, that a discussion, however brief and even imperfect,
   [6218] preliminary to the consideration of the Evangelic narrations,
   seems necessary.

   What thoughts concerning the Dead Christ filled the minds of Joseph of
   Arimathæa, of Nicodemus, and of the other disciples of Jesus, as well
   as of the Apostles and of the pious women? They believed Him to be
   dead, and they did not expect Him to rise again from the dead - at
   least, in our accepted sense of it. Of this there is abundant evidence
   from the moment of His Death, in the burial spices brought by
   Nicodemus, in those prepared by the women (both of which were intended
   as against corruption), in the sorrow of the women at the empty tomb,
   in their supposition that the Body had been removed, in the perplexity
   and bearing of the Apostle, in the doubts of so many, and indeed in the
   express statement: For as yet they knew not the Scripture, that He must
   rise again from the dead.' [6219] And the notice in St. Matthew's
   Gospel, [6220] that the Sanhedrists had taken precautions against His
   Body being stolen, so as to give the appearance of fulfilment to His
   prediction that He would rise again after three days [6221] - that,
   therefore, they knew of such a prediction, and took it in the literal
   sense - would give only more emphasis to the opposite bearing of the
   disciples and their manifest non-expectancy of a literal Resurrection.
   What the disciples expected, perhaps wished, was not Christ's return in
   glorified corporeity, but His Second Coming in glory into His Kingdom.

   But if they regarded Him as really dead and not to rise again in the
   literal sense, this had evidently no practical effect, not only on
   their former feelings towards Him, but even on their faith in Him as
   the promised Messiah. [6222] This appears from the conduct of Joseph
   and Nicodemus, from the language of the women, and from the whole
   bearing of the Apostles and disciples. All this must have been very
   different, if they had regarded the Death of Christ, even on the Cross,
   as having given the lie to His Messianic Claims. [6223] On the
   contrary, the impression left on our minds is, that, although they
   deeply grieved over the loss of their Master, and the seeming triumph
   of His foes, [6224] yet His Death came to them not unexpectedly, but
   rather as of internal necessity and as the fulfilment of His often
   repeated prediciton. Nor can we wonder at this, since He had, ever
   since the Transfiguration, laboured, against all their resistance and
   reluctance, to impress on them the act of His Betrayal and Death. He
   had, indeed - although by no means so frequently or clearly - also
   referred to His Resurrection. But of this they might, according to
   their Jewish ideas, form a very different conception from that of a
   literal Resurrection of that Crucified Body in a glorified state, and
   yet capable of such terrestial intercourse as the Risen Christ held
   with them. And if it be objected that, in such case, Christ must have
   clearly taught them all this, it is sufficient to answer, that there
   was no need for such clear teaching on the point at that time; that the
   event itself would soon and best teach them; that it would have been
   impossible really to teach it, except by the event; and that any
   attempt at it would have involved a far fuller communication on this
   mysterious subject than, to judge from what is told us in Scripture, it
   was the purpose of Christ to impart in our present state of faith and
   expectancy. Accordingly, from their point of view, the prediction of
   Christ might have referred to the continuance of His Work, to his
   Vindication, or to some apparition of Him, whether from heaven or on
   earth - such as that of the saints in Jerusalem after the Resurrection,
   or that of Elijah in Jewish belief - but especially to His return in
   glory; certainly, not to the Resurrecton as it actually took place. The
   fact itself would be quite foreign to Jewish ideas, which embraced the
   continuance of the soul after death and the final resurrection of the
   body, but not a state of spiritual corporeity, far less, under
   conditions such as those described in the Gospels. [6225] Elijah, who
   is so constantly introduced in Jewish tradition, is never represented
   as sharing in meals or offering his body for touch; nay, the Angels who
   visited Abraham are represented as only making show of, not really,
   eating. [6226] Clearly, the Apostles had not learned the Resurrection
   of Christ either from the Scriptures - and this proves that the
   narrative of it was not intended as a fulfilment of previous expectancy
   - nor yet from the predictions of Christ to that effect; although
   without the one, and especially without the other, the empty grave
   would scarcely have wrought in them the assured conviction of the
   Resurrection of Christ. [6227]

   This brings us to the real question in hand. Since the Apostles and
   others evidently believed Him to be dead, and expected not His
   Resurrection, and since the fact of His Death was not to them a
   formidable, if any, objection to His Messianic Character - such as
   might have induced them to invent or imagine a Resurrection - how are
   we to account for the history of the Resurrection with all its details
   in all the four Gospels and by St. Paul? The details, or signs' are
   clearly intended as evidences to all of the reality of the
   Resurrection, without which it would not have been believed; and their
   multiplication and variety must, therefore, be considered as indicating
   what otherwise would have been not only numerous but insuperable
   difficulties. similarly, the language of St. Paul [6228] implies a
   careful and searching inquiry on his part; [6229] the more rational,
   that, besides intrinsic difficulties and Jewish preconceptions against
   it, the objections to the fact must have been so often and coarsely
   obtruded on him, whether in disputation or by the jibes of the Greek
   scholars and students who derided his preaching. [6230]

   Hence, the question to be faced is this: Considering their previous
   state of mind and the absence of any motive, how are we to account for
   the change of mind on the part of the disciples in regard to the
   Resurrection? There can at least be no question, that they came to
   believe, and with the most absolute certitude, in the Resurrection as
   an historical fact; nor yet, that it formed the basis and substances of
   all their preaching of the Kingdom; nor yet, that St. Paul, up to his
   conversion a bitter enemy of Christ, was fully persuaded of it; nor -
   to go a step back - that Jesus Himself expected it. Indeed, the world
   would not have been converted to a dead Jewish Christ, however His
   intimate disciples might have continued to love His memory. But they
   preached everywhere, first and foremost, the Resurrection from the
   dead! In the language of St. Paul: If Christ hath not been raised, then
   is our preaching vain, your faith also is vain. Yea, and we are found
   false witnesses of God . . . ye are yet in your sins.' [6231] We must
   here dismiss what probably underlies the chief objection to the
   Resurrection: its miraculous character. The objection to Miracles, as
   such, proceeds on that false Supernaturalism, which traces a Miracle to
   the immediate fiat of the Almighty without any intervening links;
   [6232] and, as already shown, it involves a vicious petitio principii.
   But, after all, the Miraculous is only the to us unprecedented and
   uncognisable - a very narrow basis on which to refuse historical
   investigation. And the historian has to account for the undoubted fact,
   that the Resurrection was the fundamental personal conviction of the
   Apostles and disciples, the basis of their preaching, and the final
   support of their martyrdom. What explanation then can be offered of it?

   1. We may here put aside two hypotheses, now universally discarded even
   in Germany, and which probably have never been seriously entertained in
   this country. They are that of gross fraud on the part of the
   disciples, who had stolen the Body of Jesus - as to which even Strauss
   remarks, that such a falsehood is wholly incompatible with their
   after-life, heroism, and martyrdom; - and again this, that Christ had
   not been really dead when taken from the Cross, and that He gradually
   revived again. Not to speak of the many absurdities which this theory
   involves, [6233] it really shifts - if we acquit the disciples of
   complicity - the fraud upon Christ Himself.

   2. The only other explanation, worthy of attention, is the so called
   Vision-hypothesis:' that the Apostles really believed in the
   Resurrection, but the mere visions of Christ had wrought in them this
   belief. The hypothesis has been variously modified. According to some,
   these visions were the outcome of an excited imagination, of a morbid
   state of the nervous system. To this there is, of course, the
   preliminary objection, that such visions presuppose a previous
   expectancy of the event, which, as we know, is the opposite of the
   fact. Again, such a Vision-hypothesis' in no way agrees with the many
   details and circumstances narrated in connection with Risen One, Who is
   described as having appeared not only to one or another in the
   retirement of the chamber, but to many, and in a manner and
   circumstances which render the idea of a mere vision impossible.
   Besides, the visions of an excited imagination would not have endured
   and led to such results; most probably they would soon have given place
   to corresponding depression.

   The Vision-hypothesis' is not much improved, if we regard the supposed
   vision as the result of reflection - that the disciples, convinced that
   the Messiah could not remain dead (and this again is contrary to fact)
   had wrough themselves first into a persuasion that He must rise, and
   then into visions of the Risen [6234] One. Nor yet would it commend
   itself more to our mind, if were to assume that thes visions had been
   directly sent from God Himself, [6235] to attest the fact that Christ
   lived. For, we have here to deal with a series of facts that cannot be
   so explained, such as the showing them His Sacred Wounds; the offer
   touch them; the command to handle Him, so as to convince themselves of
   His real corporeity; the eating with the disciples; the appearance by
   the Lake of Galilee, and others. Besides, the Vision-hypothesis' has to
   account for the events of the Easter-morning, and especially for the
   empty tomb from which the great stone had been rolled, and in which the
   very cerements [6236] of death were seen by those who entered it. In
   fact, such a narrative as that recorded by St. Luke [6237] seems almost
   designed to render the Vision-hypothesis' impossible. We are expressly
   told, that the appearance of the Risen Christ, so far from meeting
   their anticipations, had affrighted them, and that they had thought it
   spectral, on which Christ had reassured them, and bidden them handle
   Him, for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye behold Me having.'
   Lastly, who removed the Body of Christ from the tomb? Six weeks
   afterwards, Peter preached the Resurrection of Christ in Jerusalem. If
   Christ's enemies had removed the Body, they could easily have silenced
   Peter; if His friends, they would have been guilty of such fraud, as
   not even Strauss deems possible in the circumstances. The theories of
   deception, delusion, [6238] and vision being thus impossible, and the à
   priori objection to the fact, as involving a Miracle, being a petitio
   principii, the historical student is shut up to the simple acceptance
   of the narrative. To this conclusion the unpreparedness of the
   disciples, their previous opinions, their new testimony unto martyrdom,
   the foundation of the Christian Church, the testimony of so many,
   singly and in company, and the series of recorded manifestations during
   forty days, and in such different circumstances, where mistake was
   impossible, had already pointed with unerring certainty. [6239] And
   even if slight discrepancies, nay, some not strictly historical
   details, which might have been the outcome of earliest tradition in the
   Apostolic Church, could be shown in those accounts which were not of
   eyewitnesses, it would assuredly not invalidate the great fact itself,
   which may unhesitatingly be pronounced that best established in
   history. At the same time we would carefully guard ourselves against
   the admission that those hypothetical flaws really exist in the
   narratives. On the contrary, we believe them capable of the most
   satisfactory arrangement, unless under the strain of hypercriticism.

   The importance of all this cannot be adequately expressed in words. A
   dead Christ might have been a Teacher and Wonder-worker, and remembered
   and loved as such. But only a Risen and Living Christ could be the
   Saviour, the Life, and the Life-Giver, and as such preached to all men.
   And of this most blessed truth we have the fullest and most
   unquestionable evidence. We can, therefore, implictly yeild ourselves
   to the impression of these narratives, and, still more, to the
   realisation of that most sacred and blessed fact. This is the
   foundation of the Chruch, the inscription on the banner of her armies,
   the strength and comfort of every Christian heart, and the grand hope
   of humanity:

   The Lord is risen indeed.' [6240]

   THE CROSS AND THE CROWN
     __________________________________________________________________

   [6212] So Canon Westcott.

   [6213] Acts. i. 3.

   [6214] The reader who is desirous of further studying this point is
   referred to the admirable analysis by Canon Westcott in his notes
   prefatory to St. John xx. At the same time I must respectfully express
   dissent from his arrangement of some of the events connected with the
   Resurrection (u.s., p. 288 a).

   [6215] I may here state that I accept the genuineness of the concluding
   portion of St. Mark (xvi. 9-20). If, on internal grounds, it must be
   admitted that it reads like a postscript; on the other hand, without it
   the section would read like a mutilated document. This is not the place
   to discuss the grounds on which I have finally accepted the genuineness
   of these verses. The reader may here be referred to Canon Cook's
   Revised Version of the first three Gospels,' pp. 120-125, but
   especially to the masterly and exhaustive work by Dean Burgon on The
   last twelve verses of the Gospel according to St. Mark.' At the same
   time I would venture to say, that Dean Burgon has not attached
   sufficient importance to the adverse impression made by the verses in
   question on the ground of internal evidence (see his chapter on the
   subject, pp. 136-190). And it must be confessed, that, whichever view
   we may ultimately adopt, the subject is beset with considerable
   difficulties.

   [6216] Acts xii. 12.

   [6217] 1 Cor. xv. 4-8.

   [6218] I have purposely omitted detailed references to, and refutation
   of the arguments of opponents.

   [6219] St. John xx. 9.

   [6220] St. Matt. xxvii. 62-66.

   [6221] But it must be truthfully admitted that there is force in some,
   though not in all, the objections urged against this incident by Meyer
   and others. It need scarcely be said that this would in no way
   invalidate the truth of the narrative. Further than this, which we
   unhesitatingly state, we cannot at present enter on the question. See
   pp. 636, 637.

   [6222] The statement of the two on the way to Emmaus (St. Luke xxiv.
   21): But we trusted that it was He Which should redeem Israel,' refers
   only to the disappointment of their Jewish hopes of a present Messianic
   Kingdom.

   [6223] It can scarcely be supposed, that their whole ideas of his
   Messiahship had in those few hours undergone a complete change, and
   that in a philosophico-rationalistic direction, such as would have been
   absolutely and wholly foreign to minds and training like theirs.

   [6224] St. Mark xvi. 10.

   [6225] But even if a belief in His Resurrection had been a requirement
   in their faith, as Keim rightly remarks, such realistic demonstration
   of it would not have been looked for. Herod Antipas did not search the
   tomb of the Baptist when he believed him risen from the dead - how much
   more should the disciples of Christ have been satisfied with evidence
   far less realistic and frequent than that described in the Gospels.
   This consideration shows that there was no motive for inventing the
   details connected with the history of the Resurrection.

   [6226] So Josephus (Ant. xi. 1. 2), and, to show that this was not a
   rationalistic view, Baba Mets. 65 b, Ber. R. 48. Later traddition (Tos.
   to b. Mets.; Bemidb. R. 10), indeed, seems to admit the literal eating,
   but as representing travellers, and in acknowledgment of Abraham's
   hospitality. Onkelos simply renders literally, but the Targum
   Pseudo-Jon. seems purposely to leave the point undetermined.

   [6227] This is well argued by Weiss, Leben Jesu, vol ii. p. 608.

   [6228] Gal. i. 18.

   [6229] This is conveyed by the verb storo.

   [6230] Acts xvii. 32.

   [6231] 1 Cor. xv. 14, 15, 17.

   [6232] The whole subject of miracles requires fuller and clearer
   treatment than it has yet received.

   [6233] Such as this, how with pierced Feet He could have gone to
   Emmaus.

   [6234] This argument might, of course, be variously elaborated, and the
   account in the Gospels represents as the form which it afterwards took
   in the belief of the Church. But (a) the whole Vision-hypothesis' is
   shadowy and unreal, and the sacred writers themselves show that they
   knew the distinction between visions and real appearances; (b) it is
   impossible to reconcile it with such occurrences as that in St. Luke
   xxiv. 38-43 and St. John xxi. 13, and, if possible, even more so, to
   set aside all these details as the outcome of later tradition, for
   which there was no other basis than the desire of vindicating a vision;
   (c) it is incompatible with the careful inquiry of St. Paul, who, as on
   so many other occasion, is here a most important witness. (d) The
   theory involves the most arbitrary handling of the Gospel-narratives,
   such as that the Apostles had at once returned to Galilee, where the
   sight of the familiar scenes had kindled in them this enthusiasm; that
   all the notices about the third day' are to be rejected, &c. (e). What
   was so fundamental a belief as that of the Resurrection could not have
   had its origin in a delusive vision. This, as Keim has shown, would be
   incompatible with the calm clearness of conviction and strong purpose
   of action which were its outcome. Besides, are we to believe that the
   enthusiasm had first seized the women, then the Apostle, and so on? But
   how, in that case, about the 500 of whom St. Paul speaks? They could
   scarcely all have been seized with the same mania. (f) A mere vision is
   unthinkable under such circumstances as the walk to Emmaus, the
   conversation with Thomas, with Peter, &c. Besides, it is incompatible
   with the giving of such definite promises by the Risen Christ as that
   of the Holy Spirit, and of such detailed directions as that of
   Evangelising the world. (g) Lastly, as Keim points out, it is
   incompatible with the fact that these manifestations ceased with the
   Ascension. We have eight or at most nine such manifestations in the
   course of six weeks, and then they suddenly and permanently cease! This
   would not accord with the theory of visions on the part of excited
   enthusiasts. But were the Apostles such? Does not the perusal of the
   Gospel-narratives leave on the impartial reader exactly the opposite
   impression?

   [6235] These two modes of accounting for the narrative of the
   Resurrection: by fraud, and that Christ's was not real death, were
   already attempted by Celsus, 1700 years ago, and the first, by the Jews
   long before that. Keim has subjected them, as modified by different
   advocates, to a searching criticism, and, with keen irony, exhibited
   their utter absurdity. In regard to the supposition of fraud he says:
   it shows that not even the faintest idea of the holy conviction of the
   Apostles and first Christians has penetrated hardened spirits. The
   objection that the Risen One had only manifested Himself to friends,
   not before enemies, is also as old as Celsus. It ignores that,
   throughout, the revelation of Christ does not supersede, but imply
   faith; that there is no such thing in Christianity as forcing
   conviction, instead of eliciting faith; and that the purpose of the
   manifestations of the Risen Christ was to confirm, to comfort, and to
   teach His disciples. As for His enemies, the Lord had expressly
   declared that they would not see Him again till the judgment.

   [6236] Exaggeration would, of course, be here out of the question.

   [6237] St. Luke xxiv. 38-43.

   [6238] The most deeply painful, but also interesting study is that of
   the conclusion at which Keim ultimately arrives (Gesch. Jesu v. Naz.
   iii. pp. 600-605). It has already been stated with what merciless irony
   he exposes the fraud and the non-death theory, as well as the arguments
   of Strauss. The Vision-hypothesis' he seems at first to advocate with
   considerable ingenuity and rhetorical power. And he succeeds in this
   the more easily, that, alas, he surrenders - although most arbitrarily
   - almost every historical detail in the narrative of the Resurrection!
   And yet what is the result at which he ultimately arrives? He shows,
   perhaps more conclusively than any one else, that the
   vision-hypothesis' is also impossible! having done so, he virtually
   admits that he cannot offer any explanation as to the mysterious exit'
   of the life of Jesus. Probably the visions of the Risen Christ were
   granted directly by God Himself and by the glorified Christ (p. 602).
   Nay, even the bodily appearance itself may be conceded to those who
   without it fear to lose all' (p. 603). But from this there is but a
   very small step to the teaching of the Church. At any rate, the
   greatest of negative critics has, by the admission of his inability to
   explain the Resurrection in a natural manner, given the fullest
   confirmation to the fundamental article of our Christian faith.

   [6239] Reuss (Hist. Evang. p. 698) well remarks, that if this
   fundamental dogma of the Church had been the outcome of invention, care
   would have been taken that the accounts of it should be in the
   strictest and most literal agreement.

   [6240] Godet aptly concludes his able discussion of the subject by
   observing that, if Strauss admits that the Church would have never
   arisen if the Apostles had not had unshaken faith in the reality of
   Christ's Resurrection, we may add, that this faith of the Apostles
   would have never arisen unless the Resurrection had been a true
   historical fact.
     __________________________________________________________________

CHAPTER XVII.
ON THE THIRD DAY HE ROSE AGAIN FROM THE DEAD; HE ASCENDED INTO HEAVEN'

   (St. Matt. xxviii. 1-10; St. Mark xvi. 1-11; St. Luke xxiv. 1-12; St.
   John xx. 1-18; St. Matt. xxviii. 11-15; St. Mark xvi. 12, 13; St. Luke
   xxiv. 13-35; 1 Cor. xv. 5; St. Mark xvi. 14; St. Luke xxiv. 36-43; St.
   John xx. 19-25; St. John xx. 26-29; St. Matt. xxviii. 16; St. John xxi.
   1-24; St. Matt. xxviii. 17-20; St. Mark xvi.15-28; 1 Cor. xv. 6; St.
   Luke xxiv. 44-53; St. Mark xvi. 19, 20; Acts i. 3-12.)

   GREY dawn was streaking the sky, when they who had so lovingly watched
   Him to His Burying were making their lonely way to the rock-hewn Tomb
   in the Garden. [6241] Considerable as are the difficulties of exactly
   harmonising the details in the various narratives - if, indeed,
   importance attaches to such attempts - we are thankful to know that any
   hesitation only attaches to the arrangement of minute particulars,
   [6242] and not to the great facts of the case. And even these minute
   details would, as we shall have occasion to show, be harmonious, if
   only we knew all the circumstances.

   The difference, if such it may be called, in the names of the women,
   who at early morn went to the Tomb, scarce requires elaborate
   discussion. It may have been, that there were two parties, starting
   from different places to meet at the Tomb, and that this also accounts
   for the slight difference in the details of what they saw and heard at
   the Grave. At any rate, the mention of the two Marys and Joanna is
   supplemented in St. Luke [6243] by that of the other women with them,'
   while, if St. John speaks only of Mary Magdalene, [6244] her report to
   Peter and John: We know not where they have laid Him,' implies, that
   she had not gone alone to the Tomb. It was the first day of the week
   [6245] - according to Jewish reckoning the third day from His Death.
   [6246] The narrative leaves the impression that the Sabbath's rest had
   delayed their visit to the Tomb; but it is at least a curious
   coincidence that the relatives and friends of the deceased were in the
   habit of going to the grave up to the third day (when presumably
   corruption was supposed to begin), so as to make sure that those laid
   there were really dead. [6247] Commenting on this, that Abraham
   described Mount Moriah on the third day, [6248] the Rabbis insist on
   the importance of the third day' in various events connected with
   Israel, and specially speak of it in connection with the resurrection
   of the dead, referring in proof to Hos. vi. 2. [6249] In another place,
   appealing to the same prophetic saying, they infer from Gen. xxii. 7,
   that God never leaves the just more than three days in anguish. [6250]
   In mourning also the third day formed a sort of period, because it was
   thought that the soul hovered round the body till the third day, when
   it finally parted from its tabernacle. [6251]

   Although these things are here mentioned, we need scarcely say that no
   such thoughts were present with the holy mourners who, in the grey of
   that Sunday-morning, [6252] went to the Tomb. Whether or not there were
   two groups of women who started from different places to meet at the
   Tomb, the most prominent figure among them was Mary Magdalene [6253] -
   as prominent among the pious women as Peter was among the Apostles. She
   seems to have reached the Grave, [6254] and, seeing the great stone
   that had covered its entrance rolled away, hastily judged that the Body
   of the Lord had been removed. Without waiting for further inquiry, she
   ran back to inform Peter and John of the fact. The Evangelist here
   explains, that there had been a great earthquake, and that the Angel of
   the Lord, to human sight as lightning and in brilliant white garment,
   had rolled back the stone, and sat upon it, when the guard, affrighted
   by what they heard and saw, and especially by the look and attitude of
   heavenly power in the Angel, had been seized with mortal faintness.
   Remembering the events connected with the Crucifixion, which had no
   doubt been talked about among the soldiery, and bearing in mind the
   impression of such a sight on such minds, we could readily understand
   the effect on the two sentries who that long night had kept guard over
   the solitary Tomb. The event itself (we mean: as regards the rolling
   away of the stone), we suppose to have taken place after the
   Resurrection of Christ, in the early dawn, while the holy women were on
   their way to the Tomb. The earth-quake cannot have been one in the
   ordinary sense, but a shaking of the place, when the Lord of Life burst
   the gates of Hades to re-tenant His Glorified Body, and the
   lightning-like Angel descended from heaven to roll away the stone. To
   have left it there, when the Tomb was empty, would have implied what
   was no longer true. But there is a sublime irony in the contrast
   between man's elaborate precautions and the ease with which the Divine
   Hand can sweep them aside, and which, as throughout the history of
   Christ and of His Church, recalls the prophetic declaration: He that
   sitteth in the heavens shall laugh at them.'

   While the Magdalene hastened, probably by another road, to the abode of
   Peter and John, the other women also had reached the Tomb, either in
   one party, or, it may be, in two companies. They had wondered and
   feared how they could accomplish their pious purpose - for, who would
   roll away the stone for them? But, as often, the difficulty apprehended
   no longer existed. Perhaps they thought that the now absent Mary
   Magdalene had obtained help for this. At any rate, they now entered the
   vestibule of the Sepulchre. Here the appearance of the Angel filled
   them with fear. But the heavenly Messenger bade them dismiss
   apprehension; he told them that Christ was not there, nor yet any
   longer dead, but risen, as indeed, He had foretold in Galilee to His
   disciples; finally, he bade them hasten with the announcements to the
   disciples, and with this message, that, as Christ had directed them
   before, they were to meet Him in Galilee. It was not only that this
   connected, so to speak, the wondrous present with the familiar past,
   and helped them to realise that it was their very Master; nor yet that
   in the retirement, quiet, and security of Galilee, there would be best
   opportunity for fullest manifestation, as to the five hundred, and for
   final conversation and instruction. But the main reason, and that which
   explains the otherwise strange, almost exclusive, prominence given at
   such a moment to the direction to meet Him in Galilee, has already been
   indicated in a previous chapter. [6255] With the scattering of the
   Eleven in Gethsemane on the night of Christ's betrayal, the Apostolic
   College was temporarily broken up. They continued, indeed, still to
   meet together as individual disciples, but the bond of the Apostolate
   was for the moment, dissolved. And the Apostolic circle was to be
   reformed, and the Apostolic Commission renewed and enlarged, in
   Galilee; not, indeed, by its Lake, where only seven of the Eleven seem
   to have been present, [6256] but on the mountain where He had directed
   them to meet Him. [6257] Thus was the end to be like the beginning.
   Where He had first called, and directed them for their work, there
   would He again call them, give fullest directions, and bestow new and
   amplest powers. His appearances in Jerusalem were intended to prepare
   them for all this, to assure them completely and joyously of the fact
   of His Resurrection - the full teaching of which would be given in
   Galilee. And when the women, perplexed and scarcely conscious, obeyed
   the command to go in and examine for themselves the now empty niche in
   the Tomb, they saw two Angels [6258] - probably as the Magdalene
   afterwards saw them - one at the head, the other at the feet, where the
   Body of Jesus had lain. They waited no longer, but hastened, without
   speaking to anyone, to carry to the disciples the tidings of which they
   could not even yet grasp the full import. [6259]

   2. But whatever unclearness of detail may rest on the narratives of the
   Synoptists, owing to their great compression, all is distinct when we
   follow the steps of the Magdalene, as these traced in the Fourth
   Gospel. Hastening from the Tomb, she ran to the lodging of Peter and to
   that of John - the repetition of the preposition to' probably marking,
   that the two occupied different, although perhaps closely adjoining,
   quarters. [6260] Her startling tidings induced them to go at once - and
   they went towards the sepulchre.' But they began to run, the two
   together' - probably so soon as they were outside the town and near the
   Garden.' John, as the younger, outran Peter. [6261] Reaching the
   Sepulchre first, and stooping down, he seeth' (blpei) the linen
   clothes, but, from his position, not the napkin which lay apart by
   itself. If reverence and awe prevented John from entering the
   Sepulchre, his impulsive companion, who arrived immediately after him,
   thought of nothing else than the immediate and full clearing up of the
   mystery. As he entered the sepulchre, he steadfastly (intently)
   beholds' (theore) in one place the linen swathes that had bound about
   His Head. There was no sign of haste, but all was orderly, leaving the
   impression of One Who had leisurely divested Himself of what no longer
   befitted Him. Soon the other disciples' followed Peter. The effect of
   what he saw was, that he now believed in his heart that the Master was
   risen - for till then they had not yet derived from Holy Scripture the
   knowledge that He must rise again. And this also is most instructive.
   It was not the belief previously derived from Scripture, that the
   Christ was to rise from the Dead, which led to expectancy of it, but
   the evidence that He had risen which led them to the knowledge of what
   Scripture taught on the subject.

   3. Yet whatever light had risen in the inmost sanctuary of John's
   heart, he spake not his thoughts to the Magdalene, whether she had
   reached the Sepulchre ere the two left it, or met them by the way. The
   two Apostles returned to their home, either feeling that nothing more
   could be learned at the Tomb, or to wait for further teaching and
   guidance. Or it might even have been partly due to a desire not to draw
   needless attention to the empty Tomb. But the love of the Magdalene
   could not rest satisfied, while doubt hung over the fate of His Sacred
   Body. It must be remembered that she knew only of the empty Tomb. For a
   time she gave away the agony of her sorrow; then, as she wiped away her
   tears, she stopped to take one more look into the Tomb, which she
   thought empty, when, as she intently gazed' (theore), the Tomb seemed
   no longer empty. At the head and feet, where the Sacred Body had lain,
   were seated two Angels in white. Their question, so deeply true from
   their knowledge that Christ had risen: Woman, why weepest thou?' seems
   to have come upon the Magdalene with such overpowering suddenness,
   that, without being able to realise - perhaps in the semi-gloom - who
   it was that had asked it, she spake, bent only on obtaining the
   information she sought: Because they have taken away my Lord, and I
   know not [6262] where they have laid Him.' So is it often with us,
   that, weeping, we ask the question of doubt or fear, which, if we only
   knew, would never have risen to our lips; nay, that heaven's own Why?'
   fails to impress us, even when the Voice of its Messengers would gently
   recall us from the error of our impatience.

   But already another was to given to the Magdalene. As she spake, she
   became conscious of another Presence close to her. Quickly turning
   round, she gazed' (theore) on One Whom she recognised not, but regarded
   as the gardener, from His presence there and from His question: Woman,
   why weepest thou? Whom seekest thou?' The hope, that she might now
   learn what she sought, gave wings to her words - intensity and pathos.
   If the supposed gardener had borne to another place the Sacred Body,
   she would take It away, if she only knew where It was laid. This depth
   and agony of love, which made the Magdalene forget even the restraints
   of a Jewish woman's intercourse with a stranger, was the key that
   opened the Lips of Jesus. A moment's pause, and He spake her name in
   those well-remembered accents, that had first unbound her from
   sevenfold demoniac power and called her into a new life. It was as
   another unbinding, another call into a new life. She had not known His
   appearance, just as the others did not know at first, so unlike, and
   yet so like, was the glorified Body to that which they had known. But
   she could not mistake the Voice, especially when It spake to her, and
   spake her name. So do we also often fail to recognise the Lord when He
   comes to us in another form' [6263] than we had known. But we cannot
   fail to recognise Him when He speaks to us and speaks our name.

   Perhaps we may here be allowed to pause, and, from the nonrecognition
   of the Risen Lord till He spoke, ask this question: With what body
   shall we rise? Like or unlike the past? Assuredly, most like. Our
   bodies will then be true; for the soul will body itself forth according
   to its past history - not only impress itself, as now on the features,
   but express itself - so that a man may be known by what he is, and as
   what he is. Thus, in this respect also, has the Resurrection a moral
   aspect, and is the completion of the history of mankind and of each
   man. And the Christ also must have borne in His glorified Body all that
   He was, all that even His most intimate disciples had not known nor
   understood while He was with them, which they now failed to recognise,
   but knew at once when He spake to them.

   It was precisely this which now prompted the action of the Magdalene -
   prompted also, and explains, the answer of the Lord. As in her name she
   recognised His Name, the rush of old feeling came over her, and with
   the familiar Rabboni!' [6264] - my Master - she would fain have grasped
   Him. Was it the unconscious impulse to take hold on the precious
   treasure which she had thought for ever lost; the unconscious attempt
   to make sure that it was not merely an apparition of Jesus from heaven,
   but the real Christ in His corporeity on earth; or a gesture of
   generation, the beginning of such acts of worship as her heart
   prompted? Probably all these; and yet probably she was not at the
   moment distinctly conscious of either or of any of these feelings. But
   to them all there was one answer, and in it a higher direction, given
   by the words of the Lord: Touch Me not, for I am not yet ascended to
   the Father.' Not the Jesus appearing from heaven - for He had not yet
   ascended to the Father; not the former intercourse, not the former
   homage and worship. There was yet a future of completion before Him in
   the Ascension, of which Mary knew not. Between that future of
   completion and the past of work, the present was a gap - belonging
   partly to the past and partly to the future. The past could not be
   recalled, the future could not be anticipated. The present was of
   reassurance, of consolation, of preparation, of teaching. Let the
   Magdalene go and tell His brethren' of the Ascension. So would she best
   and most truly tell them that she had seen Him; so also would they best
   learn how the Resurrection linked the past of His Work of love for them
   to the future: I ascend unto My Father, and your Father, and to my God,
   and your God.' Thus, the fullest teaching of the past, the clearest
   manifestation of the present, and the brightest teaching of the future
   - all as gathered up in the Resurrection - came to the Apostles through
   the mouth of love of her out of whom He had cast seven devils.

   4. Yet another scene on that Easter morning does St. Matthew relate, in
   explanation of how the well-known Jewish Calumny had arisen that the
   disciples had stolen away the Body of Jesus. He tells, how the guard
   had reported to the chief priests what had happened, and how they had
   turn had bribed the guard to spread this rumor, at the same time
   promising that if the fictitious account of their having slept while
   the disciples robbed the Sepulchre should reach Pilate, they would
   intercede on their behalf. Whatever else may be said, we know that from
   the time of Justin Martyr [6265] [6266] this has been the Jewish
   explanation. [6267] Of late, however, it has, among thoughtful Jewish
   writers, given place to the so-called Vision-hypothesis,' to which full
   reference has already been made.

   5. It was the early afternoon of that spring-day perhaps soon after the
   early meal, when two men from that circle of disciples left the City.
   Their narrative affords deeply interesting glimpses into the circle of
   the Church in those first days. The impression conveyed to us is of
   utter bewilderment, in which only some things stood out unshaken and
   firm: love to the Person of Jesus; love among the brethren; mutual
   confidence and fellowship; together with a dim hope of something yet to
   come - if not Christ in His Kingdom, yet some manifestation of, or
   approach to it. The Apostolic College seems broken up into units; even
   the two chief Apostles, Peter and John, are only certain of them that
   were with us.' And no wonder; for they are no longer Apostles' - sent
   out. Who is to send them forth? Not a dead Christ! And what would be
   their commission, and to whom and whither? And above all rested a cloud
   of utter uncertainty and perplexity. Jesus was a Prophet mighty in word
   and deed before God and all the people. But their rulers had crucified
   Him. What was to be their new relation to Jesus; what to their rulers?
   And what of the great hope of the Kingdom, which they had connected
   with Him?

   Thus they were unclear on that very Easter Day even as to His Mission
   and Work: unclear as to the past, the present, and the future. What
   need for the Resurrection, and for the teaching which the Risen One
   alone could bring! These two men had on that very day been in
   communication with Peter and John. And it leaves on us the impression,
   that, amidst the general confusion, all had brought such tidings as
   they, or had come to hear them, and had tried but failed, to put it all
   into order or to see light around it. The women' had come to tell of
   the empty Tomb and of their vision of Angels, who said that He was
   alive. But as yet the Apostles had no explanation to offer. Peter and
   John had gone to see for themselves. They had brought back confirmation
   of the report that the Tomb was empty, but they had seen neither Angels
   nor Him Whom they were said to have declared alive. And, although the
   two had evidently left the circle of the disciples, if not Jerusalem,
   before the Magdalene came, yet we know that even her account did not
   carry conviction to the minds of those that heard it. [6268]

   Of the two, who on that early spring afternoon left the City in
   company, we know that one bore the name of Cleopas. [6269] The other,
   unnamed, has for that very reason, and because the narrative of that
   work bears in its vividness the character of personal recollection,
   been identified with St. Luke himself. If so, then, as has been finely
   remarked, [6270] each of the Gospels would, like a picture, bear in
   some dim corner the indication of its author: the first, that of the
   publican;' that by St. Mark, that of the young man, who, in the night
   of the Betrayal, had fled from his captors; that of St. Luke in the
   Companion of Cleopas; and that of St. John, in the disciple whom Jesus
   loved. Uncertainty, almost equal to that about the second traveller to
   Emmaus, rests on the identification of that  place. [6271] But such
   great probability attaches, if not to the exact spot, yet to the
   locality, or rather the valley, that we may in imagination follow the
   two companies on their road.

   We have leave the City by the Western Gate. A rapid progress for about
   twenty-five minutes, and we have reached the edge of the plateau. The
   blood-strained City, and the cloud-and-gloom-capped trying-place of the
   followers of Jesus, are behind us; and with every step forward and
   upward the air seems fresher and freer, as if we felt in it the scent
   of mountains, or even the far-off breezes of the sea. Other twenty-five
   or thirty minutes - perhaps a little more, passing here and there
   country-houses - and we pause to look back, now on the wide prospect
   far as Bethlehem. Again we pursue our way. We are now getting beyond
   the dreary, rocky region, and are entering on a valley. To our right is
   the pleasant spot that marks the ancient Nephtoah, [6272] on the border
   of Judah, now occupied by the village of Lifta. A short quarter of an
   hour more, and we have left the well-paved Roman road and are heading
   up a lovely valley. The path gently climbs in a north-westerly
   direction, with the height on which Emmaus stands prominently before
   us. About equidistant are, on the right Lifta, on the left Kolonieh.
   The roads from these two, describing almost a semicircle (the one to
   the north-west, the other to the north-east), meet about a quarter of a
   mile to the south of Emmaus (Hammoza, Beit Mizza). What an oasis this
   in a region of hills! Among the course of the stream, which babbles
   down, and low in the valley is crossed by a bridge, are scented
   orange-and lemon-gardens, olive-groves, luscious fruit trees, pleasant
   enclosures, shady nooks, bright dwellings, and on the height lovely
   Emmaus. A sweet spot to which to wander on that spring afternoon;
   [6273] a most suitable place where to meet such companionship, and to
   find such teaching, as on that Easter Day.

   It may have been where the two roads from Lifta and Kolonieh meet, that
   the mysterious Stranger, Whom they knew not, their eyes being holden,'
   joined the two friends. Yet all these six or seven miles [6274] their
   converse had been of Him, and even now their flushed faces bore the
   marks of sadness [6275] on account of those events of which they had
   been speaking - disappointed hopes, all the more bitter for the
   perplexing tidings about the empty Tomb and the absent Body of the
   Christ. So is Christ often near to us when our eyes are holden, and we
   know Him not; and so do ignorance and unbelief often fill our hearts
   with sadness, even when truest joy would most become us. To the
   question of the Stranger about the topics of a conversation which had
   so visibly affected them, [6276] they replied in language which shows
   that they were so absorbed by it themselves, as scarcely to understand
   how even a festive pilgrim and stranger in Jerusalem could have failed
   to know it, or perceive its supreme importance. Yet, strangely
   unsympathetic as from His question He might seem, there was that in His
   Appearance which unlocked their inmost hearts. They told Him their
   thoughts about this Jesus; how He had showed Himself a prophet mighty
   in deed and word before God and all the people; [6277] then, how their
   rulers had crucified Him; and, lastly, how fresh perplexity had come to
   them from the tidings which the women had brought, and which Peter and
   John had so far confirmed, but were unable to explain. Their words were
   almost childlike in their simplicity, deeply truthful, and with a
   pathos and earnest craving for guidance and comfort that goes straight
   to the heart. To such souls it was, that the Risen Saviour would give
   His first teaching. The very rebuke with which He opened it must have
   brought its comfort. We also, in our weakness, are sometimes sore
   distrest when we hear what, at the moment, seem to us insuperable
   difficulties raised to any of the great of our holy faith; and, in
   perhaps equal weakness, feel comforted and strengthened, when some
   great one' turns them aside, or avows himself in face of them a
   believing disciple of Christ. As if man's puny height could reach up to
   heaven's mysteries, or any big infant's strength were needed to steady
   the building which God has reared on that great Cornerstone! But
   Christ's rebuke was not of such kind. Their sorrow arose from their
   folly in looking only at the things seen, and this, from their slowness
   to believe what the prophets had spoken. Had they attended to this,
   instead of allowing it all. Did not the Scriptures with one voice teach
   this twofold truth about the Messiah, that He was to suffer and to
   enter into His glory? Then why wonder - why not rather expect, that He
   had suffered, and that Angels had proclaimed Him alive again?

   He spake it, and fresh hope sprang up in their hearts, new thoughts
   rose in their minds. Their eager gaze was fastened on Him as He now
   opened up, one by one, the Scriptures, from Moses and all the prophets,
   and in each well-remembered passage interpreted to them the things
   concerning Himself. Oh, that we had been there to hear - though in
   silence of our hearts also, if only we crave for it, and if we walk
   with Him, He sometimes so opens from the Scriptures - nay, from all the
   Scriptures, that which comes not to us by critical study: the things
   concerning Himself.' All too quickly fled the moments. The brief space
   was traversed, and the Stranger seemed about to pass on from Emmaus -
   not the feigning it, but really: for, the Christ will only abide with
   us if our longing and loving constrain Him. But they could not part
   with Him. They constrained Him.' Love made them ingenious. It was
   toward evening; the day was far spent; He must even abide with them.
   What rush of thought and feeling comes to us, as we think of it all,
   and try to realise time, scenes, circumstances in our experience, that
   are blessedly akin to it.

   The Master allowed Himself to be constrained. He went in to be their
   guest, as they thought, for the night. The simple evening-meal was
   spread. He sat down with them to the frugal board. And now He was no
   longer the Stranger; He was the Master. No one asked, or questioned, as
   He took the bread and spake the words of blessing, then, breaking, gave
   it to them. But that moment it was, as if an unfelt Hand had been taken
   from their eyelids, as if suddenly the film had been cleared from their
   sight. And as they knew Him, He vanished from their view - for, that
   which He had come to do had been done. They were unspeakably rich and
   happy now. But, amidst it all, one thing forced itself ever anew upon
   them, that, even while their eyes had yet been holden, their hearts had
   burned within them, while He spake to them and opened to them the
   Scriptures. So, then, they had learned to full the Resurrection-lesson
   - not only that He was risen indeed, but that it needed not His seen
   Bodily Presence, if only He opened up to the heart and mind all the
   Scriptures concerning Himself. And this, concerning those other words
   about holding' and touching' Him - about having converse and fellowship
   with Him as the Risen One, had been also the lesson taught the
   Magdalene, when He would not suffer her loving, worshipful touch,
   pointing her to the Ascension before Him. This is the great lesson
   concerning the Risen One, which the Church fully learned in the Day of
   Pentecost.

   6. That same afternoon, in circumstances and manner to us unknown, the
   Lord had appeared to Peter. [6278] We may perhaps suggest, that it was
   after His manifestation at Emmaus. This would complete the cycle of
   mercy: first, to the loving sorrow of the woman; next, to the loving
   perplexity of the disciples; then, to the anxious heart of the stricken
   Peter - last, in the circle of the Apostles, which was again drawing
   together around the assured fact of His Ressurrection.

   7. These two in Emmaus could not have kept the good tidings to
   themselves. Even if they had not remembered the sorrow and perplexity
   in which they had left their fellow-disciples in Jersalem that
   forenoon, they could not have kept it to themselves, could not have
   remained in Emmaus, but must have gone to their brethren in the City.
   So they left the uneaten meal, and hastened back the road they had
   travelled with the now well-known Stranger - but, ah, with what lighter
   hearts and steps!

   They knew well the trysting-place where to find the Twelve' - nay, not
   the Twelve now, but the Eleven' - and even thus their circle was not
   complete, for, as already stated, it was broken up, and at least Thomas
   was not with the others on that Easter-Evening of the first Lord's
   Day.' But, as St. Luke is careful to inform us, [6279] with the others
   who then associated with them. This is of extreme importance, as
   marking that the words which the Risen Christ spake on that occasion
   were addressed not to the Apostles as such - a thought forbidden also
   by the absence of Thomas - but to the Church, although it may be as
   personified and represented by such of the Twelve,' or rather Eleven,'
   as were present on the occasion.

   When the two from Emmanus arrived, they found the little band as sheep
   sheltering within the fold from the storm. Whether they apprehended
   persecution simply as disciples, or because the tidings of the empty
   Tomb, which had reached the authorities, would stir the fears of the
   Sanhedrists, special precautions had been taken. The outer and inner
   doors were shut, alike to conceal their gathering and to prevent
   surprise. But those assembled were now sure of at least one thing.
   Christ was risen. And when they from Emmanus told their wondrous story,
   the others could antiphonally reply by relating how He had appeared,
   not only to the Magdalene, but also to Peter. And still they seem not
   yet to have understood His Ressurection; to have regarded it as rather
   an Ascension to Heaven, from which He had made manifestation, that as
   the reappearance of His real, though glorified Corporeity.

   They were sitting at meat [6280] - if we may infer from the notice of
   St. Mark, and from what happened immediately afterwards, discussing,
   not without considerable doubt and misgiving, the real import of these
   appearances of Christ. That to the Magdalene seems to have been put
   aside - at least, it is not mentioned, and, even in regard to the
   others, they seem to have been considered, at any rate by some, rather
   as what we might call spectral appearances. But all at once He stood in
   the midst of them. The common salutation - on His Lips not common, but
   a reality - fell on their hearts at first with terror rather than joy.
   They had spoken of spectral appearances, and now they believed they
   were gazing' (theoren) on a spirit.' This the Saviour first, and once
   for all, corrected, by the exhibition of the glorified marks of His
   Sacred Wounds, and by bidding them handle Him to convince themselves,
   that His was a real Body, and what they saw not a disembodied spirit.
   [6281] The unbelief of doubt now gave place to the not daring ot
   believe all that it meant, for very gladness, and for wondering whether
   there could now be any longer fellowship or bond between this Risen
   Christ and them in their bodies. It was to remove this also, which,
   though from another aspect, was equally unbelief, that the Saviour now
   partook before them of their supper of broiled fish, [6282] thus
   holding with them true human fellowship as of old. [6283]

   It was this lesson of His continuity - in the strictest sense - with
   the past, which was required in order that the Church might be, so to
   speak, reconstituted now in the Name, Power, and Spirit of the Risen
   One Who had lived and died. Once more He spake the Peace be unto you!'
   and now it was to them not occasion of doubt or fear, but the
   well-known salutation of their old Lord and Master. It was followed by
   the re-gathering and constituting of the Church as that of Jesus
   Christ, the Risen One. The Church of the Risen One was to be the
   Ambassador of Christ, as He had been the Delegate of the Father. The
   Apostles were [say rather, the Church was'] commissioned to carry on
   Christ's work, and not to begin a new one.' [6284] As the Father has
   sent Me [in the past, for His Mission was completed], even so send
   [6285] I you [in the constant, present, till His coming again].' This
   marks the threefold relation of the Church to the Son, to the Father,
   and to the world, and her position in it. In the same manner, for the
   same purpose, nay, so far as possible, with the same qualification and
   the same authority as the Father had sent Christ, does He commission
   His Church. And so it was that He made it a very real commission when
   He breathed on them, not individually but as an assembly, and said:
   Take ye the [6286] Holy Ghost;' and this, manifestly not in the
   absolute sense, since the Holy Ghost was not yet given, [6287] but as
   the connecting link with, and the qualification for, the authority
   bestowed on the Church. Or, to set forth another aspect of it by
   somewhat inverting the order of the words: Alike the Mission of the
   Church and her authority to forgive or retain sins are connected with a
   personal qualification: Take ye the Holy Ghost;' - in which the word
   take' should also be marked. This is the authority which the Church
   possesses, not ex opere operato, but as not connected with the taking
   and the indwelling of the Holy Ghost in the Church.

   It still remains to explain, so far as we can, these two points: in
   what this power of forgiving and retaining sins consists, and in what
   manner it resides in the Church. In regard to the former we must first
   inquire what idea it would convey to those to whom Christ spake the
   words. It has already been explained, [6288] that the power of loosing'
   and binding' referred to the legislative authority claimed by, and
   conceded to, the Rabbinic College. Similarly, as previously stated,
   that here referred to applied to their juridical or judicial power,
   according to which they pronounced a person either, Zakkai,' innocent
   or free;' absolved,' Patur;' or else liable,' guilty,' Chayyabh'
   (whether liable to punishment or sacrifice.) In the true sense,
   therefore, this is rather administrative, disciplinary power, the power
   of the keys' - such as St. Paul would have had the Corinthian Church
   put in force - the power of admission and exclusion, of the
   authoritative declaration of the forgiveness of sins, in the exercise
   of which power (as it seems to the present writer) the authority for
   the administration of the Holy Sacraments is also involved. And yet it
   is not, as is sometimes represented, absolution from sin,' which
   belongs only to God and to Christ as Head of the Church, but absolution
   of the sinner, which He has delegated to His Church: Whosesover sins ye
   forgive, they are forgiven.' These words also teach us, that the Rabbis
   claimed in virtue of their office, that the Lord bestowed on His Church
   in virtue of her receiving, and of the indwelling of, the Holy Ghost.

   In answering the second question proposed, we must bear in mind one
   important point. The power of binding' and loosing' had been primarily
   committed to the Apostles, [6289] and exercised by them in connection
   with the Church. [6290] On the other hand, that of forgiving and
   retaining sins, in the sense explained, was primarily bestowed on the
   Church, and excercised by her through her representatives, the
   Apostles, and those to whom they committed rule. [6291] Although,
   therefore, the Lord on that night committed this power to His Church,
   it was in the person of her representatives and rulers. The Apostles
   alone could exercise legislative function, [6292] but the Church, has
   to the end of time the power of the keys.'

   8. There had been absent from the circle of disciples on that
   Easter-Evening one of the Apostles, Thomas. Even when told of the
   marvellous events at that gathering, he refused to believe, unless he
   had personal and sensous evidence of the truth of the report. It can
   scarecly have been, that Thomas did not believe in the fact that
   Christ's Body had quitted the Tomb, or that He had really appeared. But
   he held fast by what we may term the Vision-hypothesis, or, in this
   case, rather the spectral theory. But until this Apostle also had come
   to conviction of the Resurrection in the only real sense - of the
   identical though glorified Corporeity of the Lord, and hence of the
   continuity of the past with the present and future, it was impossible
   to re-form the Apostlic Circle, or to renew the Apostolic commission,
   since its primal message was testimony concerning the Risen One. This,
   if we may so suggest, seems the reason why the Apostles still remain in
   Jerusalem, instead of hastening, as directed, to meet the Master in
   Galilee.

   A quiet week had passed, during which - and this also may be for our
   twofold learning - the Apostles excluded not Thomas, [6293] nor yet
   Thomas withdrew from the Apostles. Once more the day of days had come -
   the Octave of the Feast. From that Easter-Day onwards the Church must,
   even without special institution, have celebrated the weekly-recurring
   memorial of His Resurrection, as that when He breathed on the Church
   the breath of a new life, and consecrated it to be His Representative.
   Thus, it was not only the memorial of His Resurrection, but the
   birthday of the Church, even as Pentatecost was her baptism day. On
   that Octave, then, the disciples were again gathered, under
   circumstances precisely similar to those of Easter, but now Thomas was
   also with them. Once more - and it is again specially marked: the doors
   being shut' [6294] - the Risen Saviour appeared in the midst of the
   disciples with the well-known salutation. He now offered to Thomas the
   demanded evidence; but it was no longer either needed or sought. With a
   full rush of feeling he yielded himself to the blessed conviction,
   which once formed, must immediately have passed into act of adoration:
   My Lord and my God!' The fullest confession this hitherto made, and
   which truly embraced the whole outcome of the new conviction concerning
   the reality of Christ's Resurrection. We remember how, under similar
   circumstances, Nathnael had been the first to utter fullest confession.
   [6295] We also remember the analogous reply of the Saviour. As then, so
   now, He pointed to the higher: to a faith which was not the outcome of
   sight, and therefore limited and bounded by sight, whether of the sense
   or of perception by the intellect. As one has finely remarked: This
   last and greatest of the Beatitudes is the pecuilar hertiage of the
   later Church' [6296] - and thus most aptly comes as the consecration
   gift of that Church.

   9. The next scene presented to us is once again by the Lake of Galilee.
   The manifestation to Thomas, and, with it, the restoration of unity in
   the Aspostic Circle, had originally concluded the Gospel of St. John.
   [6297] But the report which had spread in the early Church, that
   Disciple whom Jesus loved was not to die, led him to add to his Gospel,
   by way of Appendix, and account of the events with which this
   expectancy had connected itself. It is most instructive to the critic,
   when challenged at every step to explain why one or another fact is not
   mentioned or mentioned only in one Gospel, to find that, but for the
   correction of a possible misapprehension in regard to the aged Apostle,
   the Fourth Gospel would have contained no reference to the
   manifestation of Christ in Galilee, nay, to the presence of the
   disciples there before the Ascension. Yet, for all that St. John had it
   in his mind. And should we not learn from this, that what appear to us
   strange omissions, which, when held by the side of the other
   Gospel-narratives, seem to involve discrepancies, may be capable of the
   most satisfactory explanation, if we only knew all the circumstance?

   The history itself sparkles like a gem in its own peculiar setting. It
   is of green Galilee, and of the blue Lake, and recalls the early days
   and scenes of this history. As St. Matthew has it, [6298] the eleven
   disciples went away into Galilee' - probably immediately after that
   Octave of the Easter. [6299] It can scarcely be doubted, that they made
   known not only the fact of the Resurrection, but the trysting which the
   Risen One had given them - perhaps at that Mountain where He had spoken
   His first Sermon.' And so it was, that some doubted,' [6300] and that
   He afterwards appeared to the five hundred at once. [6301] But on that
   morning there were by the Lake of Tiberias only seven of the disciples.
   Five of them only are named. They are those who most closely kept in
   company with Him - perhaps also they who lived nearest the Lake.

   The scene is introduced by Peter's proposal to go a-fishing. It seems
   as if the old habits had come back to them with the old associations.
   Peter's companions naturally proposed to join him. [6302] All that
   still, clear night they were on the Lake, but caught nothing. Did not
   this recall to them for former event, when James and John, and Peter
   and Andrew were called to be Aspostles, and did it not specially recall
   to Peter the searching and sounding of his heart on the morning that
   followed? [6303] But so utterly self-unconscious were they, and, let us
   add, so far is this history from any trace of legendary design, [6304]
   that not the slightest indication of this appears. Early morning was
   breaking, and under the rosy glow above the cool shadows were still
   lying on the pebbly beach.' There stood the Figure of One Whom they
   recognised not - nay, not even when He spake. Yet His Words were
   intended to bring them this knowledge. The direction to cast the net to
   the right side of the ship brought them, as He had said, the haul for
   which they had toiled all night in vain. And more than this: such a
   multitude of fishes, enough for the disciple whom Jesus loved,' and
   whose heart may previously have misgiven him. He whispered it to Peter:
   It is the Lord, and Simon, only reverently gathering about him his
   fisher's upper garment, [6305] cast himself into the sea. Yet even so,
   except to be sooner by the side of Christ, Peter seems to have gained
   nothing by his haste. The others, leaving the ship, and transferring
   themselves to a small boat, which must have been attached to it
   followed, rowing the short distance of about one hundred yards, [6306]
   and dragging after them the net, weighted with the fishes.

   They stepped on the beach, hallowed by His Presence, in silence, as if
   they had entered Church or Temple. They dared not even dispose of the
   netful of fishes which they had dragged on shore, until He directed
   them what to do. This only they notice, that some unseen hand had
   prepared the morning meal, which, when asked by the Master, they had
   admitted they had not of their own. And now Jesus directed them to
   bring the fish they had caught. When Peter dragged up the weight net,
   it was found full of great fishes, not less than a hundred and
   fifty-three in number. There is no need to attach any symbolic import
   to that number, as the Fathers and later writers have done. We can
   quite understand - nay, it seems almost natural, that, in the peculiar
   circumstances, they should have counted the large fishes in that
   miraculous draught that still left the net unbroken. [6307] It may have
   been, that they were told to count the fishes - partly, also, to show
   the reality of what had taken place. But on the fire the coals there
   seems to have been only one fish, and beside it only one bread. [6308]
   To this meal He now bade them, for they seem still to have hung back in
   reverent awe, nor durst they ask him, Who He was, well knowing it was
   the Lord. This, as St. John notes, was the third appearance of Christ
   to the disciples as a body. [6309]

   10. And still this morning of blessing was not ended. The frugal meal
   was past, with all its significant teaching of just sufficient
   provision for His servants, and abundant supply in the unbroken net
   beside them. But some special teaching was needed, more even that that
   to Thomas, for him whose work was to be so prominent among the
   Apostles, whose love was so ardent, and yet in its very ardour so full
   of danger to himself. For, our dangers spring not only from deficiency,
   but it may be from excess of feeling, when that feeling is not
   commensurate with inward strength. Had Peter not confessed, quite
   honestly, yet, as the event proved, mistakingly, that his love to
   Christ would endure even an ordeal that would disperse all the others?
   [6310] And had he not, almost immediately afterwards, and though
   prophetically warned of it, thrice denied his Lord? Jesus had, indeed,
   since then appeared specially to Peter as the Risen One. But this
   threefold denial still, stood, as it were, uncancelled before the other
   disciples, nay, before Peter himself. It was to this that the threefold
   question to the Risen Lord now referred. Turning to Peter, with pointed
   though most gentle allusion to be danger of self-confidence - a
   confidence springing from only a sense of personal affection, even
   though genuine - He asked: Simon, son of Jona' - as it were with
   fullest reference to what he was naturally - lovest thou Me more than
   these?' Peter understood it all. No longer with confidence in self,
   avoiding the former reference to the others, and even with marked
   choice of a different word to express his affection [6311] from that
   which the Saviour had used, he replied, appealing rather to his Lord's,
   than to his own consciousness: Yea, Lord, Thou knowest that I love
   Thee.' And even here the answer of Christ is characteristic. it was to
   set him first the humblest work, that which needed most tender care and
   patience: Feed [provide with food] My Lambs.'

   Yet a second time came the same question, although now without the
   reference to the others, and, with the same answer by Peter, the now
   varied and enlarged commission: Feed [shepherd, pomaine] My Sheep.' Yet
   a third time did Jesus repeat the same question, now adopting in it the
   very word which Peter had used to express his affection. Peter was
   grieved at this threefold repetition. It recalled only too bitterly his
   threefold denial. And yet the Lord was not doubtful of Peter's love,
   for each time He followed up His question with a fresh Apostle
   commission; but now that He put it for the third time, Peter would have
   the Lord send down the sounding-line quite into the lowest deep of this
   heart: Lord, Thou knowest all things - Thou perceivest [6312] that I
   love Thee!' And now the Saviour spake it: Feed [provide food for] My
   sheep.' His Lamb, His Sheep, to be provided for, to be tended as such!
   And only love can do such service.

   Yes, and Peter did love the Lord Jesus. He had loved Him when he said
   it, only too confident in the strength of his feelings, that he would
   follow the Master even unto death. And Jesus saw it all - yea, and how
   this love of the ardent temperament which had once made him rove at
   wild liberty, would give place to patient work of love, and be crowned
   with that martyrdom which, when the beloved disciple wrote, was already
   matter of the past. And the very manner of death by which he was to
   glorify God was indicated in the words of Jesus.

   As He spake them, He joined the symbolic action to His Follow Me.' This
   command, and the encourgement of being in death literally made like Him
   - following Him - were Peter's best strength. He obeyed; but as he
   turned to do so, he saw another following. As St. John himself puts it,
   it seems almost to convey that he had longed to share Peter's call,
   with all that it implied. For, St. John speaks of himself as the
   disciple whom Jesus loves, and he reminds us that in that night of
   betrayal he had been specially a sharer with Peter, nay, had spoken
   what the other had silently asked of him. Was it impatience, was it a
   touch of the old Peter, or was it a simple inquiry of brotherly
   interest which prompted the question, as he pointed to John: Lord - and
   this man, what?' Whatever had been the motive, to him, as to us all,
   when perplexed about those who seem to follow Christ, we ask it -
   sometimes in bigoted narrowness, sometines in igornace, folly, or
   jealousy - is this answer: What is that to thee? follow thou Me.' For
   John also had his life-work for Christ. It was to tarry' while He was
   coming [6313] - to tarry those many years in patient labour, while
   Christ was coming.

   But what did it mean? The saying went aboard among the brethren that
   John was not to die, but to tarry till Jesus came again to reign, when
   death would be swallowed up in victory. But Jesus had not so said,
   only: If I will that he tarry while I am coming.' What that Coming'
   was, Jesus had not said, and John knew not. So, then, there are things,
   and connected with His Coming, on which Jesus has left the veil, only
   to be lifted by His own Hand - which He means us not to know at
   present, and which we should be content to leave as He has left them.

   11. Beyond this narrative we have only briefest notices: by St. Paul,
   of Christ manifesting Himself to James, which probably finally decided
   him for Christ, and the Eleven meeting Him at the mountain, where He
   had appointed them; by St. Luke, of the teaching in the Scriptures
   during the forty days of communication between the Risen Christ and the
   disciples.

   But this twofold testimony comes to us from St. Matthew and St. Mark,
   that then the worshipping disciples were once more formed into the
   Apostolic Circle - Apostles, now, of the Risen Christ. And this was the
   warrent of their new commission: All power (authority) has been given
   to Me in heaven and on earth.' And this was their new commission: Go
   ye, therefore, and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them
   into the Name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.'
   And this was their work: Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever
   I commanded you.' And this is His final and sure promise: And lo, I am
   with you always, even unto the end of the world.'

   12. We are once more in Jersualem, whither He had bidden them go to
   tarry for the fulfilment of the great promise. The Pentecost was
   drawing nigh. And on that last day - the day of His Ascension - He led
   them forth to the well-remembered Bethany. From where He had made His
   last triumphal Entry into Jersualem before His Crucifixion, would He
   make His truimphant Entry visibly into Heaven. Once more would they
   have asked Him about that which seemed to them the final consummation -
   the restoration of the Kingdom to Israel. But such questions became
   them not. Theirs was to be work, not rest; suffering, not triumph. The
   great promise before them was of spiritual, not outward, power: of the
   Holy Ghost - and their call not yet to reign with Him, but to bear
   witness for Him. And, as He so spake, He lifed His Hands in blessing
   upon them, and, as He was visbly taken up, a cloud received Him. And
   still they gazed, with upturned faces, on that luminous cloud which had
   received Him, and two Angels spake to them this last message from him,
   that He should so come in like manner - as they had beheld Him going
   into heaven.

   And so their last question to Him, ere He had parted from them, was
   also answered, and with blessed assurance. Reverently they worshipped
   Him; then, with great joy, returned to Jersualem. So it was all true,
   all real - and Christ sat down at the Right Hand of God!' Henceforth,
   neither doubting, ashamed, nor yet afraid, they were continually in the
   Temple, blessing God,' And they went forth and preached everywhere, the
   Lord working with them, and confirming the word by the signs that
   followed. Amen.'

   Amen! It is so. Ring out the bells of heaven; sing forth the Angelic
   welcome of worship; carry it to the utmost bound of earth! Shine forth
   from Bethany, Thou Sun of Righteousness, and chase away earth's mist
   and darkness, for Heaven's golden day has broken!

   Easter Morning, 1883. - Our task is ended - and we also worship and
   look up. And we go back from this sight into a hostile world, to love,
   and to live, and to work for Risen Christ. But as earth's day is
   growing dim, and, with earth's gathering darkness, breaks over it
   heaven's storm, we ring out - as of old they were wont, from
   church-tower, to the mariners that hugged a rock-bound coast - our
   Easter-bells to guide them who are belated, over the storm-tossed sea,
   beyond the breakers, into the desired haven. Ring out, earth, all thy
   Easter-chimes; bring you offerings, all ye people; worship in faith,
   for -

   This Jesus, When was received up from you into heaven, shall so come,
   in like manner as ye beheld Him going into heaven.' Even so, Lord
   Jesus, come quickly!'

     __________________________________________________________________

   [6241] I must remain uncertain, however important, whether the ps
   sabbton refers to Saturday evening or early Sunday Morning.

   [6242] The reader who is desirous of comparing the different views
   about these seeming or real small discrepancies is referred to the
   various Commentaries. On the strictly orthodox side the most elaborate
   and learned attempt at concilliation is that by Mr. McClellan (New
   Test., Harmony of the Four Gospels, pp. 508-538), although his ultimate
   scheme of arrangement seems to me too composite.

   [6243] St. Luke xxiv. 10.

   [6244] St. John xx. 1.

   [6245] masabbton, an expression which exactly answers to the Rabbinic
   {hebrew}.

   [6246] Friday, Saturday, Sunday.

   [6247] Mass. Semach. viii. p. 29 d.

   [6248] Gen. xxii. 4.

   [6249] Ber. R. 56, ed, Warsh. p. 102 b, top of page.

   [6250] Ber. R. 91.

   [6251] Moed K. 28 b; Ber. R. 100.

   [6252] I cannot believe that St. Matthew xxviii. 1 refers to a visit of
   the two Marys on the Saturday evening, nor St. Mark xvi. 1 to a
   purchasing at that time of spices.

   [6253] The accounts imply, that the women knew nothing of the sealing
   of the stone and of the guard set over the Tomb. This may be held as
   evidence, that St. Matthew could have not meant that the two Marys had
   visited the grave on the previous evening (xxviii. 1). In such case
   they must have seen the guard. Nor could the women in that case have
   wondered who roll away the stone for them.

   [6254] I cannot believe that St. Matthew xxviii. 1 refers to a visit of
   the two Marys on the Saturday evening, nor St. Mark xvi. 1 to a
   purchasing at that time of spices.

   [6255] See this Book, ch. xii.

   [6256] St. John xxi. 2.

   [6257] St. Matt. xxviii. 16.

   [6258] It may, however, have been that the appearance of the one Angel
   was to one company of women, that of two Angels to another.

   [6259] While I would speak very diffidently on the subject, it seems to
   me as if the Evangelist has compressed the whole of that morning's
   event into one narrative: The Women at the Sepulchre.' It is this
   compression which gives the appearance of more events than really took
   place, owing to the appearance of being divided into scenes, and the
   circumstance that the different writers give prominence to different
   persons or else to different details in what is really one scene. Nay,
   I am disposed - though again with great diffidence - to regard the
   appearance of Jesus to the women' (St. Matt. xxviii. 9) as the same
   with that to Mary Magdalene, recorded in St. John xx. 11-17, and
   referred to in St. Mark xvi. 9 - the more so as the words in St. Matt.
   xxviii. 9 as they went to tell His disciples' are spurious, being
   probably intended for harmonious purposes. But, while suggesting this
   view, I would by no means maintain it as one certain to my own mind,
   although it would simplify details otherwise very intricate.

   [6260] So already Bengel.

   [6261] It may be regarded as a specimen of what one might designate as
   the imputation of sinister motives to the Evangelists, when the most
   advanced' negative criticism describes this legend' as implying the
   contest between Jewish and Gentile Christianity (Peter and John) in
   which the younger gains the race! Similarly, we are informed that the
   penitent on the Cross is intended to indicate the Gentiles, the
   impenitent the Jews! But no language can be to strong to repudiate the
   imputation, that so many parts of the Gospels were intended as covert
   attacks by certain tendencies in the early Church against others - the
   Petrine and Jacobine against the Johannine and Pauline directions.

   [6262] When Meyer contends that the plural in St. John xx. 2, We know
   not where they have laid Him,' does not refer to the presence of other
   women with the Magdalene, but is a general expression for: We, all His
   followers, have no knowledge of it - he must have overlooked that, when
   alone, she repeats the same words in ver. 13, but markedly uses the
   singular number: I know not.'

   [6263] St. Mark xvi. 12.

   [6264] This may represent the Galilean form of the expression, and, if
   so, would be all the more evidential.

   [6265] Dial. c. Tryph. xvii.; cviii.

   [6266] In its coarsest form it is told in the so-called Toldoth Jeshu,
   which may be seen at the end of Wagenseil's Tela Ignea Satanæ.

   [6267] So Grätz, and most of the modern writers.

   [6268] St. Mark xvi. 11.

   [6269] This may be either a form of Alphæus, or of Cleopatros.

   [6270] By Godet.

   [6271] Not less than four localities have been identified with Emmaus.
   But some preliminary difficulties must be cleared. The name Emmaus is
   spelt in different ways in the Tulmud (comp. Neubauer, Geogr. d. Talm.
   p. 100, Note 3). Josephus (War iv. 1. 3; Ant. xviii. 2. 3) explains the
   meaning of the name as warm baths,' or thermal springs. We will not
   complicate the question by discussing the derivation of Emmaus. In
   another place (War vii. 6. 6) Josephus speaks of Vespasian having
   settled in an Emmaus, sixty furlongs from Jerusalem, a colony of
   soldiers. There can be little doubt that the Emmaus of St. Luke and
   that of Josephus are identical. Lastly, we read in Mishnah (Sukk. iv.
   5) of a Motsa whence they fetched the willow branches with which the
   altar was decorated at the Feast of Tabernacles, and the Talmud
   explains this Moza as Kolonieh, which again is identified by Christian
   writers with Vespasian's colony of Roman soldiers (Caspari, Chronol
   Geogr. Einl. p. 207; Quart. Rep. of the Pal Explor. Fund, July 1881, p.
   237 [not without some slight inaccuracies]). But an examination of the
   passage in the Mishanah must lead us to dismiss this part of the
   theory. No one could imagine that the worshippers would walk sixty
   stadia (seven or eight miles) for willow branches to decorate the
   altar, while the Mishah, besides, describes this Moza as below, or
   south of Jerusalem, whereas the modern Kolonieh (which is identified
   with the Colonia of Josephus) is northwest of Jerusalem. No doubt, the
   Talmud, knowing that there was an Emmaus which was Colonia,'
   blunderingly identified with it the Moza of the willow branches. This,
   however, it seems lawful to infer from it, that the Emmaus of Josephus
   bore popularly the name of Kolonieh. We can now examine the four
   proposed identifications of Emmaus. The oldest and the youngest of
   these may be briefly dismissed. The most common, perhaps the earliest
   identification, was with the ancient Nicopolis, the modern Amwâs, which
   in Rabbinic writings also bears the name of Emmaus (Neubauer, u.s.).
   But this is impossible, as Nicopolis is twenty miles from Jerusalem.
   The latest proposed identification is that with Urtas, to the south of
   Bethlehem (Mrs. Finn, Quart. Rep. of Pal. Exlor. Fund, Jan. 1883, p.
   53). It is impossible here to enter into the various reasons urged by
   the talented and accomplished proposer of this identification. Suffice
   it, in refutation, to note, that, admittedly, there were no natural
   hot-baths,'or thermal springs, here, only artificial Roman baths,' such
   as, no doubt, in many other places, and that this Emmaus was Emmaus
   only at the particular period when they (St. Luke and Josephus) were
   writing' (u.s. p. 62). There now only remain two localities, the modern
   Kolonieh and Kubeibeh - for the strange proposed identification by
   Lieut. Conder in the Quarterly Rep. of the Pal. Explor. Fund, Oct. 1876
   (pp. 172-175) seems now abandoned even by its author. Kolonieh would,
   of course, represent the Colonia of Josephus, according to the Talmud =
   Emmaus. But this is only 45 furlongs from Jerusalem. But at the head of
   the same valley, in the Wady Buwai, and at a distance of about three
   miles north, is Kubeibeh, the Emmaus of the Crusaders, just sixty
   furlongs from Jerusalem. Between these places is Beit Mizza, or
   Hammoza, which I regard as the real Emmaus. It would be nearly 55 or
   about 60 furlongs' (St. Luke) - sufficiently near to Kolonieh (Colonia)
   to account for the name, since the colony' would extend up the valley,
   and suffciently near to Kubeibeh to account for the tradition. The
   Palestine Exploration Fund has now apparently fixed on Kubeibeh as the
   site (see Q. Report, July, 1881, p. 237, and their N. T. map.

   [6272] Josh. xv.

   [6273] Even to this day seems a favourite resort of the inhabitants of
   Jerusalem for an afternoon (comp. Conder's Tent-Work in Palestine, i.
   pp. 25-27).

   [6274] 60  furlongs about = "7" ½ miles.

   [6275] I cannot persuade myself that the right reading of the close of
   ver. 17 (St. Luke xxiv.) can be And they stood still, looking sad.'
   Every reader will mark this as an incongruous, jejune break-up in the
   vivid narrative, quite unlike the rest. We can understand the question
   as in our A.V., but scarcely the standing-still and looking sad on the
   question as in the R. V.

   [6276] Without this last clause we could hardly understand how a
   stranger would accost them, ask the subject of their conversation.

   [6277] Meyer's rendering of s gneto in ver. 19 as implying: se
   præstitit, se præbuit, is more correct than the which was' of both the
   A.V. and R.V.

   [6278] 1 Cor. xv. 5.

   [6279] St. Luke xxiv. 33.

   [6280] St. Mark xvi. 14.

   [6281] I cannot understand why Canon Cook (Speaker's Commentary' ad
   loc.) regards St. Luke xxiv. 39 as belonging to the appearance on the
   octave of the Resurrection.' It appears to me, on the contrary, to be
   strictly parallel to St. John xx. 20.

   [6282] The words and honeycomb' seem spurious.

   [6283] Such seems to me the meaning of His eating; any attempt at
   explaining, we willingly forego in our ignorance of the conditions of a
   glorified body, just as we refuse to discuss the manner in which He
   suddenly appeared in the room while the doors were shut. But I at least
   cannot believe, that His body was then in a transition state,' not
   perfected not quite glorified till His Ascension.

   [6284] Wescott.

   [6285] The words in the two clauses are different in regard to the
   sending of Christ (pstalkn me) and in regard to the Church (pmpo ms).
   No doubt, there must be deeper meaning in this distinction, yet both
   are used alike of Christ and of the disciples. It may be as Cremer
   seems to hint (Bibl. Theol. Lex. of the N.T. p. 529) that postllo, from
   which apostle' and apostolate' are derived, refers to a mission with a
   definite commission, or rather for a definite purpose, while pmpo is
   sending in a general sense. See the learned and ingenious Note of Canon
   Westcott (Comm. on St. John, p. 298).]

   [6286] In the original the definite article is omitted. But this,
   though significant, can surely not be supposed to prove that the
   expression is equivalent to a gift of the Holy Ghost.' For, as Meyer
   has pointed out, the word is used in other passages without the
   article, where the Holy Ghost is referred to (comp. St. John i. 33;
   vii. 39; Acts i. 2, 5).

   [6287] This alone would suffice to show what misinterpretation is
   sometimes made, by friend and foe, of the use of these words in the
   English Ordinal.

   [6288] Book iii. ch. xxxvii.

   [6289] St. Matt. xvi. 19; xviii. 18.

   [6290] Acts xv. 22, 23.

   [6291] 1 Cor. v. 4, 5, 12, 13; 2 Cor. ii. 6, 10.

   [6292] The decrees of the first Councils should be regarded not as
   legislative, but either as disciplinary, or else as explanatory of
   Apostolic teaching and legislation.

   [6293] It must, however, be remembered that Thomas did not deny that
   Christ was risen - except as in the peculiar sense of the Resurrection.
   Had he denied the other, he would scarcely have continued in the
   company of the Apostles.

   [6294] Significantly, the expression for fear of the Jews' no longer
   occurs. That apprehension had for the present passed away.

   [6295] St. John i. 45-51.

   [6296] Canon Westcott.

   [6297] St. John xx. 30, 31.

   [6298] St. Matt. xxviii. 16.

   [6299] The account of St. Luke (xxiv. 44-48) is a condensed narrative -
   without distinction of time or place - of what occurred during all the
   forty days.

   [6300] St. Matt. xxviii. 17.

   [6301] 1 Cor. xv. 6.

   [6302] The word immediately' in St. John xxi. 3 is spurious.

   [6303] St. Luke v. 1, 11.

   [6304] Yet St John must have been acquainted with this narrative,
   recorded as it is by all three Synoptists.

   [6305] This notice also seems specially indicative that the narrator is
   himself from the Lake of Galilee.

   [6306] About 200 cubits.

   [6307] Canon Westcott gives, from St. Augustine, the points of
   difference between this and the miraculous draught of fishes on the
   former occasion (St. Luke v.). These are very interesting. Not so the
   fanciful speculations of the Fathers about the symbolic meaning of the
   number 153.

   [6308] This seems implied in the absence of the article in St. John
   xxi. 9.

   [6309] St. John could not have meant His third appearance in general,
   since himself had recorded three previous manifestations.

   [6310] St. Matt. xxvi. 33; St. John xiii. 37.

   [6311] Christ asks: gaps me, and Peter answers: s odas ti phl se.

   [6312] ginskeis.

   [6313] So Canon Westcott renders the meaning. The coming' might refer
   to the second Coming, to the destruction of Jerusalem, or even to the
   firm establishment of the Church. The tradition that St. John only
   slept in the grave at Ephesus is mentioned even by St. Augustine.
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

                                   APPENDICES

     __________________________________________________________________

APPENDIX I.

   PSEUDEPIGRAPHIC WRITINGS

   (See vol. i. pp. 37, 38, and other places.)

   ONLY the briefest account of these can be given in this place; barely
   more than an enumeration.

   I. The Book of Enoch. - As the contents and the literature of this
   remarkable book, which is quoted by St. Jude (vv. 14, 15), have been
   fully described in Dr. Smith's and Wace's Dictionary of Christian
   Biography (vol. ii. pp. 124-128), we may here refer to it the more
   shortly.

   It comes to us from Palestine, but has only been preserved in an
   Ethiopic translation (published by Archbishop Laurence [Oxford, 1838;
   in English transl. 3rd ed. 1821-1838; German transl. by A. G.
   Hoffmann], then from five different MSS. by Professor Dillmann
   [Leipzig, 1851; in German transl. Leipzig, 1853]). But even the
   Ethiopic translation is not from the original Hebrew or Aramaic, but
   from a Greek version, of which a small fragment has been discovered
   (ch. lxxxix. 42-49; published by Cardinal Mai. Comp. also Gildemeister,
   Zeitschr. d. D. Morg. Ges. for 1855, pp. 621-624, and Gebhardt, Merx'
   Arch. ii. 1872, p. 243).

   As regards the contents of the work: An Introduction of five brief
   chapters, and the book (which, however, contains not a few spurious
   passages) consists of five parts, followed by a suitable Epilogue. The
   most interesting portions are those which tell of the Fall of the
   Angels and its consequences, of Enoch's rapt journeys through heaven
   and earth, and of what he saw and heard (ch. vi.-xxxvi.); the
   Apocalyptic portions about the Kingdom of Heaven and the Advent of the
   Messiah (lxxxiii-xci.); and, lastly, the hortatory discourses
   (xci.-cv.). When we add, that it is pervaded by a tone of intense faith
   and earnestness about the Messiah, the last things,' and other
   doctrines specially brought out in the New Testament, its importance
   will be understood. Altogether the Book of Enoch contains 108 chapters.

   From a literary point of view, it has been arranged (by Schürer and
   others) into three parts: - 1. The Original Work (Grundschrift), ch.
   i.-xxxvi.; lxxii.-cv. This portion is supposed to date from about 175
   b.c. 2. The Parables, ch. xxxvii.- liv. 6; lv. 3-lix.; lxi.-lxiv.;
   lxix. 26-lxxi. This part also dates previous to the Birth of Christ -
   perhaps from the time of Herod the Great. 3. The so-called Noachian
   Sections, ch. liv. 7-lv. 2; lx.; lxv.-lxix. 25. To these must be added
   ch. cvi., and the later conclusion in ch. cviii. On the dates of all
   these portions it is impossible to speak definitely.

   II. Even greater, though a different interest, attaches to the
   Sibylline Oracles, written in Greek hexameters. [6314] In their present
   form they consist of twelve books, together with several fragments.
   Passing over two large fragments, which seem to have originally formed
   the chief part of the introduction to Book III., we have (1) the two
   first Books. These contain part of an older and Hellenist Jewish Sibyl,
   as well as of a poem by the Jewish Pseudo-Phocylides, in which heathen
   myths concerning the first ages of man are curiously welded with Old
   Testament views. The rest of these two books was composed, and the
   whole put together, not earlier than the close of the second century,
   perhaps by a Jewish Christian. (2) The third Book is by far the most
   interesting. Besides the fragments already referred to, vv. 97-807 are
   the work of a Hellenist Jew, deeply imbued with the Messianic hope.
   This part dates from about 160 before our era, while vv. 49-96 seem to
   belong to the year 31 b.c. The rest (vv. 1-45, 818-828) dates from a
   later period. We must here confine our attention to the most ancient
   portion of the work. For our present purpose, we may arrange it into
   three parts. In the first, the ancient heathen theogony is recast in a
   Jewish mould - Uranus becomes Noah; Shem, Ham, and Japheth are Saturn,
   Titan, and Japetus, while the building of the Tower of Babylon is the
   rebellion of the Titans. Then the history of the world is told, the
   Kingdom of Israel and of David forming the centre of all. What we have
   called the second is the most curious part of the work. It embodies
   ancient heathen oracles, so to speak, in a Jewish recension, and
   interwoven with Jewish elements. The third part may be generally
   described as anti-heathen, polemical, and Apocalyptic. The Sibyl is
   thoroughly Hellenistic in spirit. She is loud and earnest in her
   appeals, bold and defiant in the tone of her Jewish pride,
   self-conscious and triumphant in her anticipations. But the most
   remarkable circumstance is, that this Judaising and Jewish Sibyl seems
   to have passed - though possibly only in parts - as the oracles of the
   ancient Erythræan Sibyl, which had predicted to the Greeks the fall of
   Troy, and those of the Sibyl of Cumæ, which, in the infancy of Rome,
   Tarquinius Superbus had deposited in the Capitol, and that as such it
   is quoted from by Virgil (in his 4th Eclogue) in his description of the
   Golden Age.

   Of the other Sibylline Books little need be said. The 4th, 5th, 9th,
   and 12th Books were written by Egyptian Jews at dates varying from the
   year 80 to the third century of our era. Book VI. is of Christian
   origin, the work of a Judaising Christian, about the second half of the
   second century. Book VIII., which embodies Jewish portions, is also of
   Christian authorship, and so are Books X. and XI.

   III. The collection of eighteen hymns, which in their Greek version
   bear the name of the Psalter of Solomon, must originally have been
   written in Hebrew, and dates from more than half a century before our
   era. They are the outcome of a soul intensely earnest, although we not
   unfrequently meet expressions of Pharisiac self-religiousness. [6315]
   It is a time of national sorrow in which the poet sings, and it almost
   seems as if these Psalms' had been intended to take up one or another
   of the leading thoughts in the corresponding Davidic Psalms, and to
   make, as it were, application of them to the existing circumstances.
   [6316] Though somewhat Hellenisttic in its cast, the collection
   breathes ardent Messianic expectancy, and firm faith in the
   resurrection, and eternal reward and punishment (iii. 16; xiii. 9, 10;
   xiv. 2, 6, 7; xv. 11 to the end).

   IV. Another work of that class - Little Genesis,' or The Book of
   Jubilees' - has been preserved to us in its Ethiopic translation
   (though a Latin version of part of it has lately been discovered) and
   is a Haggadic Commentary on Genesis. Professing to be a revelation to
   Moses during the forty days on Mount Sinai, it seeks to fill lacunæ in
   the sacred history, specially in reference to its chronology. Its
   character is hortatory and warning, and it breathes a strong anti-Roman
   spirit. It was written by a Palestinian in Hebrew, or rather Aramæan,
   probably about the time of Christ. The name, Book of Jubilees,' is
   derived from the circumstance that the Scripture-chronology is arranged
   according to Jubilee periods of forty-nine years, fifty of these (or
   2,450 years) being counted from the Creation to the entrance into
   Canaan.

   V. Among the Pseudepigraphic Writings we also include the 4th Book of
   Esdras, which appears among our Apocrypha as 2 Esdras ch. iii.-xiv.
   (the two first and the two last chapters being spurious additions). The
   work, originally written in Greek, has only been preserved in
   translation into five different languages (Latin, Arabic, Syriac,
   Ethiopic, and Armenian). It was composed probably about the end of the
   first century after Christ. From this circumstance, and the influence
   of Christianity on the mind of the writer, who, however, is an earnest
   Jew, its interest and importance can be scarcely exaggerated. The name
   of Ezra was probably assumed, because the writer wished to treat mainly
   of the mystery of Israel's fall and restoration.

   The other Pseudepigraphic Writings are: -

   VI. The Ascension (ch. i.-v.) and Vision (ch. vi.-xi.) of Isaiah, which
   describes the martyrdom of the prophet (with a Christian interpolation
   [ch. iii. 14-iv. 22] ascribing his death to prophecy of Christ, and
   containing Apocalyptic portions), and then what he saw in heaven. The
   book is probably based on an older Jewish account, but is chiefly of
   Christian heretical authroship. It exists only in translations, of
   which that in Ethiopic (with Latin and English versions) has been
   edited by Archibishop Laurence.

   VII. The Assumption of Moses (probably quoted in St. Jude ver. 9) also
   exists only in translation, and is really a fragment. It consists of
   twelve chapters. After an Introduction (ch. i.), containing an address
   of Moses to Joshua, the former, professedly, opens to Joshua the future
   of Israel to the time of Varus. This is followed by an Apocalyptic
   portion, beginning at ch. vii. and ending with ch. x. The two
   concluding chapters are dialogues between Joshua and Moses. The book
   dates probably from about the year 2 b.c., or shortly afterwards.
   Besides the Apocalyptic portions the interest lies chiefly in the fact
   that the writer seems to belong to the Nationalist party, and that we
   gain some glimpses of the Apocalyptic views and hopes - the highest
   spiritual tendency - of that deeply interesting movement. Most
   markedly, this Book at least is strongly anti-Pharisaic, especially in
   its opposition to their purifications (ch. vii.). We would here
   specially note a remarkable resemblance between 2 Tim. iii. 1-5 and
   this in Assump. Mos. vii. 3-10: (3) Et regnabunt de his homines
   pestilentiosi et impii, dicentes se esse iustos, (4) et hi suscitabunt
   iram animorum suorum, qui erunt homines dolosi, sibi placentes, ficti
   in omnibus suiset onmi hora diei amantes convivia, devoratores gulæ (5)
   ... (6) [paupe] rum bonorum comestores, dicentes se haec facere propter
   misericordiam eorum, (7) sed et exterminatores, queruli et fallaces,
   celantes se ne possint cognosci, impii in scelere, pleni et inquitate
   ab oriente usque ad occidentem, (8) dicentes: habebimus discubitiones
   et luxurian edentes et bibentes, et potabimus nos, tamquam principes
   erimus. (9) Et manus eorum et dentes inmunda tractabunt, et os eorum
   loquetur ingentia, et superdicent: (10) noli [tu me] tangere, ne
   inquines me ...' But it is very significant, that instead of the
   denunciation of the Pharisees in vv. 9,10 of the Assumptio, we have in
   2 Tim. iii. 5. the words having the form of godliness, but denying the
   power thereof.'

   VIII. The Apocalypse of Baruch. - This also exists only in Syriac
   translation, and is apparently fragmentary, since the vision promised
   in ch lxxvi. 3 is not reported, while the Epistle of Baruch to the two
   and a half tribes in Babylon, referred to in lxxvii. 19, is also
   missing. The book had been divided into seven sections(i.-xii.;
   xiii.-xx.; xxi.-xxxxiv.; xxxv.-xlvi.; xlvii.-lii.; liii.-lxxvi.;
   lxxvii.-lxxxvii.). The whole is in a form of revelation to Baruch, and
   of his replies, and questions, or of notices about his bearing, fast,
   prayers, &c. The most interesting parts are in sections v. and vi. In
   the former we mark (ch. xlviii. 31-41) the reference to the consequence
   of the sin of our first parents (ver. 42; comp. also xvii. 3; xxiii. 4;
   liv. 15, 19), and in ch. xlix. the discussion and information; with
   what body and in what form the dead shall rise, which is answered, not
   as by St. Paul in 1 Cor. xv. - though the question raised (1 Cor. xv.
   35) is precisely the same - but in the strictly Rabbinic manner,
   described by us in Vol. ii. pp. 398, 399. In section vi. we specially
   mark (ch. lxix.-lxxiv.) the Apocalyptic descriptions of the Last Days,
   and of the Reign and Judgment of Messiah. In general, the figurative
   language in that Book is instructive in regard to the phraseology used
   in the Apocalyptic portions of the New Testament. Lastly, we mark that
   the views on the consequences of the Fall are much more limited than
   those expressed in 4 Esdras. Indeed, they do not go beyond physical
   death as the consequence of the sin of our first parents (see
   especially liv. 19: Non est ergo Adam causa, nisi animæ suæ tantum; nos
   vero unusquisque fuit animæ suæ Adam). At the same time, it seems to
   use, as if perhaps the reasoning rather than the language of the writer
   indicated hesitation on his part (liv. 14-19; comp. also first clause
   of xlviii. 43). It almost seems as if liv. 14-19 were intended as
   against the reasoning of St. Paul, Rom. v. 12 to the end. In this
   respect the passage in Baruch is most interesting, not only in itself
   (see for ex. ver. 16: Certo enim qui credit recipiet mercedem), but in
   reference to the teaching of 4 Esdras which, as regards original sin,
   takes another direction than Baruch. But I have little doubt that both
   allude to the - to them - novel teaching of St. Paul on that doctrine.
   Lastly, as regards the question when this remarkable work was written,
   we would place its composition after the destruction of Jerusalem. Most
   writers date it before the publication of 4 Esdras, Even the appearance
   of a Pseudo-Baruch and Pseudo-Esdras are significant of the political
   circumstances and the religious hopes of the nation.

   For criticism and fragments of other Old Testament Pseudepigrapha,
   comp. Fabricius, Codex Pseudepigraphus Vet. Test., 2 vols. (ed. 2,
   1722). The Psalter of Sol., IV. Esdr. (or, as he puts it, IV. and V.
   Esd.), the Apocal of Baruch, and the Assumption of Mos., have been
   edited by Fritzsche (Lips. 1871); other Jewish (Hebrew) O. T.
   Pseudepigraphs - though of a later date - in Jellinek's beth haMidrash
   (6 vols.), passim. A critical review of the literature of the subject
   would here be out of place.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [6314] We have in the main accepted the learned criticism of Professor
   Friedlieb (Oracula Sibyllina, 1852.)

   [6315] Comp. for example, ix. 7, 9.

   [6316] This view which, so far as I know, has not been suggested by
   critics, will be confirmed by an attentive perusal of almost every
   Psalm' in the collection (comp. the first three with the three opening
   Psalms in the Davidic Psalter). Is our Psalter of Solomon,' as it were,
   an historical commentary by the typical sage?' And is our collection
   only a fragment?
     __________________________________________________________________

APPENDIX II.

   PHILO OF ALEXANDRIA AND RABBINIC THEOLOGY.

   (See vol. i. pp. 42, 45, 47, 53).

   (Ad. vol. i. p. 42, note 4.) In comparing the allegorical Canons of
   Philo with those of Jewish traditionalism, we think first of all of the
   seven exegetical canons which are ascribed to Hillel. These bear
   chiefly the character of logical deductions, and as such were largely
   applied in the Halakhah. These seven canons were next expanded by R.
   Ishmael (in the first century) into thirteen, by the analysis of one of
   them (the 5th) into six, and the addition of this sound exegetical
   rule, that where two verses seem to be contradictory, their
   conciliation must be sought in a third passage. The real rules for the
   Haggadah - if such there were - were the thirty-two canons of R. José
   the Galilean (in the second century). It is here that we meet so much
   that is kindred in form to the allegorical canons of Philo. [6317] Only
   they are not rationalising, and far more brilliant in their
   application. Most taking results - at least to a certain class of minds
   - might be reached by finding in each consonant of a word the initial
   letter of another (Notariqon). Thus, the word MiSBeaCH (altar) was
   resolved into these four words, beginning respectively with M, S, B,
   CH: Forgiveness, Merit, Blessing, Life. Then there was Gematria, by
   which every letter in a word was resolved into its arithmetical
   equivalent. Thus, the two words Gog and Magog = 70, which was the
   supposed number of all the heathen nations. Again, in Athbash the
   letters of the Hebrew alphabet were transposed (the first for the last
   of the alphabet, and so on), so that SHeSHaKH(Jer. xxv. 26; li. 41)
   became BaBeL, while in Albam, the twenty-two Hebrew letters were
   divided into two rows, which might be exchanged (L for A, M for B,
   &c.).

   In other respects also the Palestinian had the advantage of the
   Alexandrian mode of interpretation. There was at least ingenuity, if
   not always truth, in explaining a word by resolving it into two others,
   [6318] or in discussing the import of exclusive particles (such as
   only,' but,' from,'), and inclusives (such as also,' with,' all,') or
   in discovering shades of meaning from the derivation of a word, as in
   the eight synonyms for poor' - of which one (Ani), indicated simply the
   poor;' another (Ebhyon, from abhah), one who felt both need and desire;
   a third (misken), one humiliated; a fourth (rash from rush), one who
   had been emptied of his property; a fifth (dal), one who property had
   become exhausted; a sixth (dakh), one who felt broken down; a seventh
   (makh), one who had come down; and the eighth (chelekh), one who was
   wretched - or in discussing such differences as between amar, to speak
   gently, and dabhar, to speak strongly - and many others. [6319] Here
   intimate knowledge of the language and tradition might be of real use.
   At other times striking thoughts were suggested, as when it was pointed
   out that all mankind was made to spring from one man, in order to show
   the power of God, since all coins struck from the same machine were
   precisely the same, while in man, whatever the resemblance, there was
   still a difference in each.

   2. (Ad vol. i. p. 45, and note 3.) The distinction between the
   unapproachable God and God as manifest and manifesting Himself, which
   lies at the foundation of so much in the theology of Philo in regard to
   the intermediary beings' - Potencies' - and the Logos, occurs equally
   in Rabbinic theology, [6320] though there it is probably derived from a
   different source. Indeed, we regard this as explaining the marked and
   striking avoidance of all anthropomorphisms in the Targumim. It also
   accounts for the designation of God by two classes of terms, of which
   in our view, the first expresses the idea of God as revealed, the other
   that of God as revealing Himself; or, to put it otherwise, which
   indicate, the one a state, the other an act on the part of God. The
   first of these classes of designations embraces two terms: yeqara, the
   excellent glory, and Shekhinah, or Shekhintha, the abiding Presence.
   [6321] On the other hand, God, as in the act of revealing himself, is
   described by the term Memra, the Logos,' the word.' A distinction of
   ideas also obtains between the terms Yeqara and Shekhinah. The former
   indicates, as we think, the inward and upward, the latter the outward
   and downward, aspect of the revealed God. This distinction will appear
   by comparing the use of the two words in the Targumim, and even by the
   consideration of passages in which the two are placed side by side (as
   for ex., in the Targum Onkelos on Ex. xvii. 16; Numb. xiv. 14; in
   Pseudo-Jonathan, Gen. xvi. 13, 14; in the Jerusalem Targum, Ex. xix.
   18; and in the Targum Jonathan, Is. vi. 1, 3; Hagg. i. 8). Thus, also,
   the allusion in 2 Pet. i. 17, to the voice from the excellent glory'
   (ts megaloprepos dxes) must have been the Yeqara. [6322] The varied use
   of the terms Shekhinah and Yeqara, and then Memra, in the Targum of Is.
   vi., is very remarkable. In ver. 1 it is the Yeqara, and its train -
   the heavenward glory - which fills the Heavenly Temple. In ver. 3 we
   hear the Trishagion in connection with the dwelling of His Shekhintha,
   while the splendour (Ziv) of His Yeqara fills the earth - as it were,
   falls down to it. In ver. 5 the prophet dreads, because he had seen the
   Yeqara of the Shekhinah, while in ver. 6 the coal is taken from before
   the Shekhintha (which is) upon the throne of the Yeqara (a remarkable
   expression, which occurs often; so especially in ix. xvii. 16).
   Finally, in ver. 8, the prophet hears the voice of the Memra of Jehovah
   speaking the words of vv. 9, 10. It is intensely interesting to notice
   that in St. John xii. 40, these words are prophetically applied in
   connection with Christ. Thus St. John applies to the Logos what the
   Targum understands of the Memra of Jehovah.

   But, theologically, by far the most interesting and important point,
   with reference not only to the Logos of Philo, but to the term Logos as
   employed in the Fourth Gospel, is to ascertain the precise import of
   the equivalent expression Memra in the Targumim. As stated in the text
   of this book (vol. i. p. 47), the term Memra as applied to God, occurs
   176 times in the Targum Onkelos, 99 times in the Jerusalem Targum, and
   321 times in the Targum Pseudo-Jonathan. We subjoin the list of these
   passages, arranged in three classes. Those in Class I. mark where the
   term does not apply to this, or where it is at least doubtful; those in
   Class II. where the fair interpretation of a passage shows; and Class
   III. where it is undoubted and unquestionable, that the expression
   Memra refers to God as revealing Himself, that is the Logos.

   Classified List of all the Passages in which the term Memra' occurs in
   the Targum Onkelos.

   (The term occurs 176 times. Class III., which consists of those
   passages in which the term Memra bears undoubted application to the
   Divine Personality as revealing Himself, comprises 79 passages). [6323]

   CLASS I. Inapplicable or Doubtful: Gen. xxvi. 5; Ex. ii. 25; v. 2; vi.
   8; xv. 8, 10, 26; xvi. 8; xvii. 1; xxiii. 21, 22; xxv. 22; xxxii. 13;
   Lev. xviii. 30; xxii. 9; xxvi. 14, 18, 21, 27; Num. iii. 39, 51; iv.
   37, 41, 45, 49; ix. 18 (bis), 19, 20 (bis), 23 quat; x. 13; xiii. 3;
   xiv. 11, 22, 30, 35; xx. 12, 24; xxiii. 19; xxiv. 4;16; xxvii. 14;
   xxxiii. 2, 38; xxxvi. 5; Deut. i. 26; iv. 30; viii. 3, 20; xiii. 5, 19
   (in our Version 4, 18); xv. 5; xxvi. 15, 18; xxvii. 10; xxviii. 1, 2,
   15, 45, 62; xxx. 2, 8, 10, 20.

   An examination of these passages would show that, for caution's sake,
   we have sometimes put down as inapplicable' or doubtful' what, viewed
   in connection with other passages in which the word is used, appears
   scarcely doubtful. It would take too much space to explain why some
   passages are put in the next class, although the term Memra seems to be
   used in a manner parallel to that in Class I. Lastly, the reason why
   some passages appear in Class III., when others, somewhat similar are
   placed in Class II., must be sought in the context and connection of a
   verse. We must ask the reader to believe that each passage had been
   carefully studied by itself, and that our conclusions have been
   determined by careful consideration, and by the fair meaning to be put
   on the language of Onkelos.

   CLASS II. Fair: Gen. vii. 16; xx. 3; xxxi. 3, 24; Ex. xix. 5; Lev.
   viii. 35; xxvi. 23; Numb. xi. 20; 23; xiv. 41; xxii. 9, 18, 20; xxiii.
   3, 4, 16; xxvii. 21; xxxvi. 2; Deut. i. 32; iv 24, 33, 36; v. 24, 25,
   26; ix 23 (bis) ; xxxi. 23; xxxiv. 5.

   CLASS III. Undoubted: Gen iii. 8, 10; vi. 6 (bis), 7; viii. 21; ix. 12,
   13, 15,16, 17; xv. 1, 6; xvii. 2, 7, 10, 11; xxi. 20, 22, 23; xxii. 16;
   xxiv. 3; xxvi. 3, 24, 28; xxviii. 15, 20 21; xxxi. 49, 50; xxxv. 3;
   xxxix, 2, 3, 21, 23; x1viii. 21; xlix. 24, 25; Ex. iii. 12; iv. 12, 15;
   x. 10; xiv. 31; xv. 2; xviii. 19; xix. 17; xxix. 42, 43; xxx. 6; xxxi.
   13, 17; xxxiii. 22, Lev. xx. 23; xxiv. 12; xxvi 9; 11, 30, 46; Numb.
   xiv. 9 (bis), 43; xvii. 19 (in our Version v. 4); xxi. 5; xxiii. 21;
   Deut. i. 30; ii. 7; iii. 22; iv. 37; v. 5; ix. 3; xviii. 16, 19, xx. 1;
   xxiii. 15; xxxi. 6, 8; xxxii. 51; xxxiii. 3, 27.

   Of most special interest is the rendering of Onkelos of Deut. xxxiii.
   27, where instead of underneath are the everlasting arms,' Onkelos has
   it: And by His Memra was the world made,' exactly as in St. John i. 10.
   This divergence of Onkelos from the Hebrew text is utterly
   unaccountable, nor has any explanation of it, as far as I know, been
   attempted. Winer, whose inaugural dissertation De Onkeloso ejusque
   Paraphrasi chaldaica' (Lips. 1820), most modern writers have simply
   followed (with some amplifications, chiefly from Luzatto's Philoxenus,'
   {hebrew} makes no reference to this passage, nor do his successors, so
   far as I know. It is curious that, as our present Hebrew text has three
   words, so has the rendering of Onkelos, and that both end with the same
   word.

   In classifying the passages in which the word Memra occurs in the
   Jerusalem Targum and the Targum Pseudo-Jonathan, we have reversed the
   previous order, and Class I. represents the passages in which the term
   undoubtedly applies to the Personal manifestation of God; Class II., in
   which this is the fair interpretation; Class III., in which application
   is, to say the most, doubtful.

   Classified List of Passages (according to the above scheme) in which
   the term Memra' occurs in the Targum Jerushalmi on the Pentateuch.

   Class I.  Of undoubted application to a Personal Manifestation of God:
   Gen. i. 27; iii. 9, 22; v. 24; vi. 3; viii. 16; xv. 1; xvi. 3; xix. 24;
   xxi. 33; xxii 8,14; xxviii. 10; xxx. 22 (bis); xxxi. 9; xxxv. 9
   (quat.); xxxviii. 25; xl. 23; exod. iii. 14; vi. 3; xii. 42 (quat.);
   xiii. 18; xiv. 15, 24, 25; xv. 12, 25 (bis); xix. 5, 7, 8, 9 (bis); xx.
   1, 24; xxv. 4; xxvii. 16; Deut. i. 1; iii. 2; iv. 34; xxvi. 3, 14, 17,
   18; xxviii. 27, 68; xxxiii. 15, 39, 51; xxxiii. 2, 7; xxxiv. 9, 10, 11.

   Class II. Where such application is fair: Gen. v. 24; xxi. 33; Ex. vi.
   3; xv. 1; Lev. i. 1; Numb. xxiii. 15, 21; xxiv. 4, 16; Deut. xxxii. 1,
   40.

   Class III. Where such application is doubtful: Gen. vi. 6; xviii. 1,
   17; xxii. 14 (bis); xxx. 22; xl. 23; xlix. 18; Ex. xiii. 19; xv. 2, 26;
   xvii. 19; xix. 3; Deut. i. 1; xxxii. 18; xxxiv. 4, 5.

   Classified List of Passages in which the term Memra' occurs in the
   Targum Pseudo-Jonathan on the Pentateuch.

   Class I. Undoubted: Gen. ii. 8, 10, 24; iv. 26; v. 2; vii. 16; ix. 12,
   13, 15, 16, 17; xi. 8; xii. 17; xv. 1; xvii. 2, 7, 10, 11; xviii. 5;
   xix. 24 (bis); xx. 6, 18: xxi. 22; 22, 23, 33; xxii. 1; xxiv, 3; xxvi.
   3, 24, 28; xxvii. 28, 31; xxviii. 10, 15, 20; xxix. 12; xxxi. 3, 50;
   xxxv. 3, 9; xxxix. 2, 3, 21, 23; xli.1; xlvi. 4; xlviii. 9, 21; xlix.
   25; 1. 20; Exod. i. 21; ii. 5; iii. 12; vii. 25; x. 10; xii. 23, 29;
   xiii. 8, 15, 17; xiv. 25, 31; xv. 25; xvii. 13, 15, 16 (bis); xviii.
   19; xx. 7; xxvi. 28; xxix. 42, 43; xxx. 6, 36; xxxi. 13, 17; xxxii. 35;
   xxxiii. 9, 19; xxxiv. 5; xxxvi. 33; Lev. i. 1 (bis); vi. 2; viii. 35;
   ix. 23; xx. 23; xxiv. 12 (bis); xxvi. 11, 12, 30, 44, 46; Numb. iii.
   16, 39, 51; iv. 37, 41, 45, 49; ix. 18 (bis), 19, 20, (bis), 23 (ter);
   x. 13, 35, 36; xiv. 9, 41, 43; xvi. 11, 26; xvii. 4; xxi. 5, 6, 8, 9,
   34; xxii. 18, 19, 28; xxiii. 3, 4, 8 (bis), 16, 20, 21; xxiv. 13;
   xxvii. 16; xxxi. 8; xxxiii. 4; Deut. i. 10, 30, 43; ii. 7, 21; iii. 22;
   iv. 3, 7, (bis) 20, 24, 33, 36; v. 5 (bis), 11, 22, 23, 24 (bis), 25,
   26; vi. 13, 21, 22; ix. 3;xi. 23; xii. 5, 11; xviii. 19; xx. 1; xxi.
   20; xxiv. 18, 19; xxvi. 5, 14, 18; xxviii. 7,9, 11, 13, 20, 21, 22, 25,
   27, 28, 35, 48, 49, 59, 61, 63, 68; xxix. 2, 4; xxx. 3, 4, 5, 7; xxxi.
   5, 8, 23; xxxii. 6, 9, 12, 36; xxxiii. 29; xxxiv. 1, 5, 10, 11.

   Class II. Fair: Gen. v. 24; xv. 6; xvi. 1, 13; xviii. 17; xxii. 16;
   xxix. 31; xxx. 22; xlvi. 4; Ex. ii. 23; iii. 8, 17, 19; iv. 12; vi. 8,
   xii. 27; xiii. 5, 17; xxxii. 13; xxxiii. 12, 22; Lev. xxvi. 44; Numb.
   xiv. 30; xx. 12, 21; xxii. 9, 20; xxiv. 4, 16, 23; Deut. viii. 3; xi.
   12; xxix. 23; xxxi. 2, 7; xxxii. 18, 23, 26,38, 39, 43, 48, 50, 51;
   xxxiii. 3, 27; xxxiv. 6.

   Class III. Doubtful: Gen. iv. 3, 6 (bis); viii. 1, 21; xxii. 18; xxvi.
   5 (bis); Ex. iv. 15; v. 2; ix. 20, 21; x. 29; xiv. 7; xv. 2, 8; xix. 5;
   xxv. 22; Lev. xviii. 30; xxii. 9; xxvi. 40; Numb. vi. 27; ix. 8; xii.
   6; xiv. 11, 22, 35;xv. 34; xx. 24; xxiii. 19; xxvii. 14; xxxiii. 2. 38;
   xxxvi. 5; Deut. i. 26, 32; iv. 30; v. 5; viii. 20; ix. 23; xi. 1; xiii.
   18; xv. 5; xix. 15; xxv. 18; xxvi. 17; xxvii. 10; xxviii. 1, 15, 45,
   62; xxx. 2, 8, 9, 10; xxxi. 12; xxxiii. 9.

   (Ad vol. i. p. 53, note 4.) Only one illustration of Philo's peculiar
   method of interpreting the Old Testament can here be given. It will at
   the same time show how he found confirmation for his philosophical
   speculations in the Old Testament, and further illustrate his system of
   moral theology in its most interesting, but also most difficult, point.
   The question is, how the soul was to pass from its state of
   sensuousness and sin to one of devotion to reason, which was religion
   and righteousness. It will be remarked that the change from the one
   state to the other is said to be accomplished in one of three ways: by
   study, by practice, or through a good natural disposition (mthesis,
   skesis, ephua) exactly as Aristotle put it. But Philo found a symbol
   for each, and for a preparatory state in each, in Scripture. The three
   Patriarchs represented this threefold mode of reaching the
   supersensuous: Abraham, study; Jacob, practice; Isaac, a good
   disposition; while Enos, Enoch, and Noah, represented the respective
   preparatory stages. Enos (hope), the first real ancestor of our race,
   represented the mind awakening to the existence of a better life.
   Abraham (study) received command to leave the land' (sensuousness). But
   all study was threefold. It was, first, physical - Abram in the land of
   Ur, contemplating the starry sky, but not knowing God. Next to the
   physical was that intermediate' (mse) study, which embraced the
   ordinary cycle of knowledge' (nkklios paidea). This was Abram after he
   left Haran, and that knowledge was symbolised by his union with Hagar,
   who tarried (intermediately) between Kadesh and Bered. But this stage
   also was insufficient, and the soul must reach the third and highest
   stage, that of Divine philosophy (truly, the love of wisdom,
   philosopha) where eternal truth was the subject of contemplation.
   Accordingly, Abram left Lot, he became Abraham, and he was truly united
   to Sarah, no longer Sarai. Onwards and ever upwards would the soul now
   rise to the knowledge of virtue. of heavenly realities, nay, of the
   nature of God Himself.

   But there was yet another method than study,' by which the soul might
   rise - that of askesis, discipline, practice, of which Scripture speaks
   in Enoch and Jacob. Enoch - whom God took, and he was not' (Gen. v. 24)
   - meant the soul turning from the lower to the higher, so that it was
   no longer found in its former place of evil. From Enoch, as the
   preparatory stage, we advance to Jacob, first merely fleeing from
   sensuous entanglements (from Laban), then contending with the
   affections, ridding himself of five of the seventy-five souls with
   which he had entered Egypt (Deut. x.22, comp. with Gen. xlvi. 27),
   often nearly misled by the Sophists (Dinah and Hamor), often nearly
   failing and faint in the conflict (Jacob's wrestling), but holpen by
   God, and finally victorious, when Jacob became Israel.

   But the highest of all was the spiritual life which came neither from
   study nor discipline, but through a good disposition. Here we have,
   first of all, Noah, who symbolises only the commencement of virtue,
   since we read not of any special virtue in him. Rather is he rest - as
   the name implies - good, relatively to those around. It was otherwise
   with Isaac, who was perfect before his birth (and hence chosen), even
   as Rebekah meant constancy in virtue. In that state the soul enjoyed
   true rest (the Sabbath, Jerusalem) and joy, which Isaac's name implied.
   But true virtue, which was also true wisdom, was Paradise, whence
   issued the one stream (goodness), which again divided into four
   branches (the four Stoic virtues): - Pison, prudence' (phrnesis);
   Gihon, fortitude' (ndra); Tigris, desire' (pithuma), and Euphrates,
   justice' (dikaiosne). And yet, though these be the Stoic virtues, they
   all spring from Paradise, the Garden of God - and all that is good, and
   all help to it, comes to us ultimately from God Himself, and is in God.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [6317] The reader who will take our outline of Philo's views to pieces,
   and compare it with the XXV. Theses de modis et formulis quibus pr.
   Hebr. doctores SS. interpertari ect. soliti fuerunt' (in Surenhusius'
   Blos Katallags pp. 57 to 88), will convince himself of the truth of
   this.

   [6318] As, for example, Malqosh, the latter rain =Mal-Qash, fill the
   stubble.

   [6319] Comp. generally, Hamburger, vol. ii. pp. 181-212, and the
   History of the Jewish Nation,' pp. 567-580, where the Rabbinic Exegesis
   is fully explained.

   [6320] Besides the designations of God to which reference is made in
   the text, Philo also applies to Him that of topos, place,' in precisely
   the same manner as the later Rabbis (and especially the Kabbalah) use
   the word {hebrew}. To Philo it implies that God is extramundane. He
   sees this taught in Gen. xxii. 3, 4, where Abraham came unto the place
   of which God had told him;' but, when he lifted up his eyes,' saw the
   place after off' Similarly, the Rabbis when commenting on Gen. xxviii.
   11, assign this as the reason why God is designated {hebrew} that He is
   extramundane; the discussion beign whether God is the place of His Word
   or the reverse, and the decision in favour of the former - Gen. xxviii.
   11 being explained by Ex. xxxiii. 21, and Deut xxxiii. 27 by Ps. xc. 1
   (Ber. R. 68, ed. Warsh. p 125 b).

   [6321] I think it is Köster (Trinitätslehre vor Christo) who
   distinguishes the two as God's Presence within and without the
   congregation. In general his brochure is of little real value. Dr. S.
   Maybaum (Anthropmorphien u. Anthropopathien ber Onkelos) affords a
   curious instance of modern Jewish criticism. With much learning and not
   a little ingenuity he tries to prove by a detailed analysis, that the
   three terms Memra, Shekhinah, and Yeqara have not the meaning above
   explained! The force of tendency-argumentation' could scarcely go
   farther than his essay.

   [6322] Not as Grimm (Clavis N.T. p. 107 a) would have it, the
   Shekhinah, though he rightly regards the N.T. dxa in this signification
   of the word, as the equivalent of the Old Testament {hebrew}. Clear
   notions on the subject are so important that we give a list of the
   chief passages in which the two terms are used in the Targum Onkelos,
   viz. Yeqara: Gen. xvii. 22; xviii. 33; xxviii. 13; xxxv. 13; Ex. iii.
   1, 6; xvi. 7, 10; xvii. 16; xviii. 5: xx. 17, 18, xxiv. 10, 11, 17;
   xxix. 43; xxxiii. 18, 22, 23,:xl. 34, 38; Lev. ix. 4, 6, 23; Numb. x.
   36: xii. 8; xiv. 14, 22. Shekhinah: Gen. ix. 27; Ex. xvii. 7, 16; xx.
   21: xxv. 8; xxix. 45, 46; xxxiii. 3, 5, 14-16, 20; xxxiv. 6,9; Numb. v.
   3; vi. 25 xi. 20; xiv. 14, 42; xxiii. 21; xxxv. 34;Deut. 1. 42; iii.
   24; iv. 39; vi. 15; vil. 21 xii. 5, 11, 21; xiv. 23, 24; xvi. 2, 6, 11,
   xxiii. 15; xxvi. 2; xxxii. 10; xxxiii. 26.

   [6323] As these sheets are passing through the press for a second
   edition, the classic edition of the Targum Onkelos by Dr. Berliner (in
   2 vols. berlin, 1884) has reached me. Vol.i. gives the text after the
   editio Sabioneta (of they 1557). Vol ii. adds critical notes to the
   text (pp. 1-70). which are followed by very interesting Prolegomena,
   entering fully one all questions connected with this Targum,
   historical, exegetical, and critical, and treating them with equal
   learning and breadth and sobriety of judgment. On comparing our
   ordinary text with that published by Dr. Berliner I find that in the
   three passages italicised (Gen. vii. 16, vi. 6, once, and xxviii. 21)
   the ed. Sabion. has not the word Memra. This is specially noteworthy as
   regards the very important passage, Gen. xxviii. 21.
     __________________________________________________________________

APPENDIX III.

   RABBINIC VIEWS AS TO THE LAWFULNESS OF IMAGES, PICTORIAL
   REPRESENTATIONS ON COINS, ETC.

   (See vol. i. p. 89, note 3.)

   On this point, especially as regarded images, statues, and coins, the
   views of the Rabbis underwent (as stated in the text) changes and
   modifications according to the outward circumstances of the people. The
   earlier and strictest opinions, which absolutely forbade any
   representation, were relaxed in the Mishnah, and still further in the
   Talmud.

   In tracing this development, we mark as a first stage that a
   distinction was made between having such pictorial representations and
   making use of them, in the sense of selling or bartering them; and
   again between making and finding them. The Mishnah forbids only such
   representations of human beings as carry in their hand some symbol of
   power, such as a staff, bird, globe, or as the Talmud adds, a sword, or
   even a signet-ring (Ab. Z. iii. 1). The Commentaries explain that this
   must refer to the making use of them, since their possession was, at
   any rate, prohibited. The Talmud adds (Ab. Z. 40 b, 41 a) that these
   were generally representations of kings, that they were used for
   purposes of worship, and that their prohibition applied only to
   villages, not to towns, where they were used for ornament. Similarly
   the Mishnah directs that everything bearing a representation of sun or
   moon, or of a dragon, was to be thrown into the Dead Sea (Ab. Z. iii.
   3). On the other hand, the Talmud quotes (Ab. Z. 42 b) a proposition
   (Boraita), to the effect that all representations of the planets were
   allowed, except those of the sun and moon, [6324] likewise all statues
   except those of man, and all pictures except those of a dragon, the
   discussion leading to the conclusion that in two, if not in all the
   cases mentioned, the Talmudic directions refer to finding, not making
   such. So stringent, indeed, was the law as regarded signet-rings, that
   it was forbidden to have raised work on them, and only such figures
   were allowed as were sunk beneath the surface, although even then they
   were not to be used for sealing (Ab. Z. 43 b). But this already marks a
   concession, accorded apparently to a celebrated Rabbi, who had such a
   ring. Still further in the same direction is the excuse, framed at a
   later period, for the Rabbis who worshipped in a Synagogue that had a
   statue of a king to the effect that they could not be suspected of
   idolatory, since the place, and hence their conduct, was under the
   inspection of all men. This more liberal tendency had, indeed, appeared
   at a much earlier period, in the case of the Nasi Gamaliel II., who
   made use of a public bath at Acco in which there was a statue of
   Aphrodite. The Mishnah (Ab. Z. iii. 4) puts this twofold plea into his
   mouth, that he had not gone into the domain of the idol, but the idol
   came into his, and that the statue was there for ornament, not for
   worship. The Talmud endorses, indeed, these arguments, but in a manner
   showing that the conduct of the great Gamaliel was not really approved
   of (Ab. Z. 44 b). But a statue used for idolatrous purposes was not
   only to be pulverized, but the dust cast to the winds or into the sea,
   lest it might possible serve as manure to the soul! (Ab. Z. iii. 3.)
   This may explain how Josephus ventured even to blame King Solomon for
   the figures on the Brazen sea and on his throne (Ant. viii. 7. 5), and
   how he could excite a fanatical rabble at Tiberias, to destroy the
   palace of Herod Antipas because it contained figures of living
   creatures' (Life 12). [6325]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [6324] The Nasi R. Gamaliel made use of representations of the moon in
   questioning ignorant witnesses with a view of fixing (by the new moon)
   the beginning of the month. But this must be regarded as a necessary
   exception to the rule.

   [6325] Following the insufficient reasoning of Ewald (Gesch. d. Volkes
   Isr. vol. v. p. 83), Schürer represents the non-issue of coins with the
   image of Herod as a concession to Jewish prejudices, and argues that
   the coins of the Emperors struck in Palestine bore no effigy. The
   assertion is, however, unsupported, and St. Matt. xxii. 20 proves that
   coins with an image of Cæsar were in general circulation. Wieseler
   (Beitr. pp. 83-87 had shown that the absence of Herod's effigy on coins
   proves his inferior position relatively to Rome, and as this has an
   important bearing on the question of a Roman census during his reign,
   it was scarcely fair to simply ignore it. The Talmud (Baba K. 97 b)
   speaks of coins bearing on one side David and Solomon (? their effigies
   or their names), and on the other Jerusalem, the holy City.' But if it
   be doubtful whether these coins had respectively the effigies of David
   or of Solomon, there can be no doubt about the coins ascribed in Ber.
   R. (Par. 39, ed. Warshau, p. 71 b) to Abraham, Joshua, David, and
   Mordecai - that of Abraham being described as bearing on one side the
   figures of an old man and an old woman (Abraham and Sarah), and on the
   other those of a young man and a young woman (Isaac and Rebekah). The
   coins of Joshua are stated to have borne on one side a bullock, on the
   other a ram, according to Deut. xxxiii. 17. There could, therefore,
   have been no such abhorrence of such coins, and if there had been Herod
   was scarcely the man to be deterred by it. On these supposed coins of
   David, &c., see the very curious remarks of Wagenseil, Sota, pp. 574,
   and following. The fullest and most accurate information on all
   connected with the coins of the Jews is contained in the large and
   learned work of Mr. Madden, Coins of the Jews' (vol. ii. of The
   International Numismata Orientalia,' 1881). Comp. also the Review of
   this book in the Journal of the Royal Archæological Inst. for 1882 vol.
   xxxix. pp. 203-206.
     __________________________________________________________________

APPENDIX IV.

   AN ABSTRACT OF JEWISH HISTORY FROM THE REIGN OF ALEXANDER THE GREAT TO
   THE ACCESSION OF HEROD

   (See Book I. ch. viii.)

   The political connection of the Grecian world, and, with it, the
   conflict with Hellenism, may be said to have connected with the
   victorious progress of Alexander the Great through the then known world
   (333 b.c.). [6326] It was not only that his destruction of the Persian
   empire put an end to the easy and peaceful allegiance which Judæa had
   owned to it for about two centuries, but that the establishment of such
   a vast Hellenic empire. as was the aim of Alexander, introduced a new
   element into the world of Asia. Everywhere the old civilisation gave
   way before the new. So early as the commencement of the second century
   before Christ, Palestine was already surrounded, north, east, and west,
   with a girdle of Hellenic cities, while in the interior of the land
   itself Grecianism had its foothold in Galilee and was dominant in
   Samaria. But this is not all. After continuing the frequent object of
   contention between the rulers of Egypt and Syria, Palestine ultimately
   passed from Egyptian to Syrian domination during the reign of Seleucus
   IV. (187-175 b.c.). His successor was that Antiochus IV., Epiphanes
   (175-164), whose reckless determination to exterminate Judaism, and in
   its place to substitute Hellenism, led to the Maccabean rising. Mad as
   this attempt seems, it could scarcely have been made had there not been
   in Palestine itself a party to favour his plans. In truth, Grecianism,
   in its worst form, had long before made its way, slowly but surely,
   into the highest quarters. For the proper understanding of this history
   its progress must be briefly indicated.

   After the death of Alexander, Palestine passed first under Egyptian
   domination. Although the Ptolemies were generally favourable to the
   Jews (at least of their own country), those of Palestine at times felt
   the heavy hand of the conqueror (Jos. Ant. xii. 1. 1). Then followed
   the contests between Syria and Egypt for its possession, in which the
   county must have severely suffered. As Josephus aptly remarks (Ant.
   xii. 3. 3), whichever partly gained, Palestine was like a ship in a
   storm which is tossed by the waves on both sides.' Otherwise it was a
   happy time, because one of the comparative independence. The secular
   and spiritual power was vested in the hereditary High-Priests, who paid
   for their appointment (probably annually) the sum of twenty (presumably
   Syrian) talents, amounting to five ordinary talents, or rather less
   than 1,200l. [6327] Besides this personal, the country paid a general
   tribute, its revenues being let to the highest bidder. The sum levied
   on Judæa itself has computed at 81,900l. (350 ordinary talents).
   Although this tribute appears by no means excessive, bearing in mind
   that in later times the dues from the balsam-district around Jericho
   were reckoned at upwards of 46,800l. (200 talents), the hardship lay in
   the mode of levying it by strangers, often unjustly, and always
   harshly, and in the charges connected with its collection. This cause
   of complaint was indeed, removed in the course of time, but only by
   that which led to far more serious evils.

   The succession of the High-Priests, as given in Nehem. xii. 10, 11, 22,
   furnishes the following names: Jeshua. Joiakin, Eliashib, Joiada,
   Johanan, [6328] Jonathan, and Jaddua, who was the contemporary of
   Alexander the Great. After the death of Jaddua, we have the following
   list: [6329] Onias I. (Jos. Ant. xi, 8. 7), Simon I. the Just [6330]
   (Ant. xii. 2. 5), Eleazar, Manasseh (Ant. xii. 4. 1), Onias II., Simon
   II. (Ant. xii. 4. 10), Onias III., Jason (Ant. xii. 5. 1), Menelaus,
   and Alcimus (Ant. xii. 9. 7), with whom the series of the Pontiffs is
   brought down to the Maccabees. Internal peace and happiness ceased
   after the death of Simon the Just (in the beginning of the third
   century b.c.), one of the last links in that somewhat mysterious chain
   of personages, to which tradition has given the name of the Great
   Assemblage,' or Great Synagogue.' [6331]

   Jewish legend has much that is miraculous to tell of Simon the Just,
   and connects him alike with events both long anterior and long
   posterior to his Pontificate. Many of these traditions read like the
   outcome of loving, longing remembrance of a happy past which was never
   to return. Such a venerable form would never again be seen in the
   Sanctuary (Ecclus. 1. 1-4), nor would such miraculous attestation be
   given to any other ministrations [6332] (Yoma 39 a and b; Jer. Yoma v.
   2; vi. 3). All this seems to point to the close of a period when the
   High-Priesthood was purely Jewish in spirit, just as the hints about
   dissensions among his sons (Jer. Yoma 43 d, at top) sound like faint
   reminiscences of the family - and public troubles which followed. In
   point of fact he was succeeded not by his Onias [6333] who was under
   age, but by his brother Eleazar, and he, after a Ponficate of twenty
   years, by his brother Manasseh. It was only twenty-seven years later,
   after the death of Manasseh, that Onias II. became High-Priest. If
   Eleazar, and especially Manasseh, owned their position, or at least
   strengthened it, by courting the favour of the ruler of Egypt, it was
   almost natural that Onias should have taken the opposite or Syrian
   part. His refusal to pay the High-Priestly tribute to Egypt could
   scarcely have been wholly due to avarice, as Josephus suggests. The
   anger and threats of the king were appeased by the High-Priest's nephew
   Joseph, who claimed descent from the line of David. He knew how to
   ingratiate himself at the court of Alexandria, and obtained the lease
   of the taxes of Coele-Syria (which included Judæa), by offering for it
   double sum previously paid. The removal of the foreign tax-gatherer was
   very grateful to the Jews, but the authority obtained by Joseph became
   a new source of danger, especially in the hands of his ambitious son,
   Hyrcanus. Thus we already mark the existence of three parties: the
   Egyptian, the Syrian, and that of the sons of Tobias' (Ant. xii. 5. 1),
   as the adherents of Joseph were called, after his father. If the
   Egyptian party ceased when Palestine passed under Syrian rule in the
   reign of Antiochis III. the Great (223-187 b.c.), and ultimately became
   wholly subject to it under Seleucus IV. (187-173), the Syrian, and
   especially the Tobias-party, had already become Grecianised. In truth,
   the contest now became one for power and wealth in which each sought to
   outbid the other by bribery and subserviency to the foreigner. As the
   submission of the people could only be secured by the virtual
   extinction of Judaism, this aim was steadily kept in view by the
   degenerate priesthood.

   The storm did not, indeed, break under the Pontificate of Simon II.,
   the son and successor of Onias II., but the times were becoming more
   and more troublous. Although the Syrian rulers occasionally showed
   favour to the Jews, Palestine was now covered with a network of Syrian
   officials, into whose hands the temporal power mainly passed. The
   taxation also sensibly increased, and, besides crown-money, consisted
   of a poll-tax, the third of the field-crops, the half of the produce of
   trees, a royal monopoly of salt and of the forests, and even a tax on
   the Levitical tithes and on all revenues of the Temple. [6334] Matters
   became much more worse under the Pontificate of Onias II., the son and
   successor of Simon II. A dispute between him and one Simon, a priest,
   and captain of the temple-guard, [6335] apparently provoked by the
   unprincipled covetousness of the latter, induced Simon to appeal to the
   cupidity of the Syrians by referring to the untold treasures which he
   described as deposited in the Temple. His motive may have been partly a
   desire for revenge, partly the hope of attaining the office of Onias.
   It was ascribed to a super-natural apparition, but probably it was only
   superstition which arrested the Syrian general at that time. But a
   dangerous lesson had been learned alike by Jew and Gentile.

   Seleucus IV. was succeeded by his brother Antiochus IV., Epiphanes
   (175-164). Whatever psychological explanation may be offered of his
   bearing - whether his conduct was that of a madman, or of a despot
   intoxicated to absolute forgetfulness of every consideration beyond his
   own caprice by the fancied possession of power uncontrolled and
   unlimited - cruelty and recklessness of tyranny were as prominently his
   characterisitics as revengefulness and unbounded devotion to
   superstition. Under such a reign the precedent which Simon, the Captain
   of the Temple, had set, was successfully followed up by no less a
   person than the brother of the High-Priest himself. The promise of a
   yearly increase of 360 talents in the taxes of the country, besides a
   payment of 80 talents from another revenue (2 Macc. iv. 8, 9),
   purchased the deposition of Onias III. - the first event of that kind
   recorded in Jewish history - and the substitution of his brother
   Joshua, Jesus, or Jason (as he loved to Grecianise his name), in the
   Pontificate. [6336] But this was not all. The necessities, if not the
   inclinations, of the new High-Priest, and his relations to the Syrian
   king, prescribed a Grecian policy at home. It seems almost incredible,
   and yet it is quite in accordance with the circumstances, that Jason
   should have actually paid to Antiochus a sum of 150 talents for
   permission to erect a Gymnasium in Jerusalem, that he entered citizens
   of Antioch on the registers of Jerusalem, and that on one occasion he
   went so far as to send a deputation to attend the games at Tyre, with
   money for purchasing offerings to Heracles! And in Jerusalem, and
   throughout the land, there was a strong and increasing party to support
   Jason in his plans, and to follow his lead (2 Macc. iv. 9, 19). Thus
   far had Grecianism already swept over the country, as not only to
   threaten the introduction of views, manners, and institutions wholly
   incompatible with the religion of the Old Testament, but even the
   abolition of the bodily mark which distinguished its professors (1
   Macc. i. 15; Jos. Ant. xii.5. 1).

   But the favor which Antiochus showed Jason was not of long duration.
   One even more unscrupulous than he, Menelaus (or, according to his
   Jewish name, Onias), the brother of that Simon who had first excited
   the Syrian cupidity about the Temple treasure, outbade Jason with
   Antichus by a promise of 300 talents in addition tho the tribute which
   Jason had paid. Accordingly, Menelaus was appointed High-Priest. In the
   expressive language of the time: he came, bringing nothing worthy of
   the High-Priesthood, but having the fury of a cruel tyrant and the rage
   of a savage beast' (2 Macc. iv. 25). In the conflict for the
   Pontificate, which now ensued, Menelaus conquered by the help of the
   Syrians. A terrible period of internal misrule and external troubles
   followed. Menelaus and his associates cast off every restraint, and
   even plundered the Temple of some of its precious vessels. Antiochus,
   who had regarded the resistance to his nominee as rebellion against
   himself, took fearful vengeance by slaughter of the inhabitants of
   Jerusalem and pillage of the Temple. But this was not all. When checked
   in his advance against Egypt, by the peremptory mandate of Rome,
   Antiochus made up for his disappointment by an expedition against
   Judæa, of which the avowed object was to crush the people and to sweep
   away Judaism. The horrors which now ensued are equally recorded in the
   Books of the Maccabees, by Josephus, and in Jewish tradition. [6337]
   All sacrifices, the service of the Temple, and the observance of the
   Sabbath and of feast-days were prohibited; the Temple at Jerusalem was
   dedicated to Jupiter Olympius; the Holy Scriptures were searched for
   and destroyed; the Jews forced to take part in heathen rites; a small
   heathen altar was reared on the great altar of burnt-offering - in
   short, every insult was heaped on the religion of the Jews, and its
   every trace was to be swept away. The date of the final profanation of
   the Temple was the 25th Chislev (corresponding to our December) - the
   same on which, after its purification by Judas Maccabee, [6338] its
   services were restored, the same on which the Christian Church
   celebrates the dedication of a better Temple, that of the Holy Ghost in
   the Incarnation of Jesus Christ.

   But the relentless persecution, which searched for its victims in every
   part of the land, also called forth a deliverer in the person of
   Mattathias. The story of the glorious rising and final deliverance of
   the country under the Maccabees or Asmonæans, as they are always called
   in Jewish writings, [6339] is sufficiently known. Only the briefest
   outline of it can here be attempted. Mattathias died before it came to
   any actual engagement with the Syrians, but victory after victory
   attended the arms of his son, Judas the Maccabee, till at last the
   Temple could be purified and its services restored, exactly three years
   after its desecration (25 Chislev, 165 b.c). The rule of the Jewish
   hero lasted other five years, which can scarcely be described as
   equally successful with the beginning of his administration. The first
   two years were occupied in fortifying strong positions and chastising
   those hostile heathen border-tribes which harassed Judæa. Towards the
   close of the year 164 Antiochus Epiphanes died. But his successor, or
   rather Lysias, who administered the kingdom during his minority, was
   not content to surrender Palestine without a further contest. No deeds
   of heroism, however great, could compensate for the inferiority of the
   forces under Judas' command. [6340] The prospect was becoming hopeless,
   when troubles at home recalled the Syrian army, and led to a treaty of
   peace in which the Jews acknowledged Syrian supremacy, but were secured
   liberty of conscience and worship.

   But the truce was of short duration. As we have seen there were already
   in Palestine two parties - that which, from its character and aims, may
   generally be designated as the Grecian, and the Chasidim (Assideans).
   There can be little doubt that the latter name originally in the
   designation Chasidim, applied to the pious in Israel in such passages
   as Ps. xxx. 5 (4 in our A.V.); xxxi. 23 (A.V.24; xxxvii. 28). Jewish
   tradition distinguishes between the earlier' and the later' Chasidim
   (Ber. v. 1 and 32 b; Men. 40 b). The descriptions of the former are of
   so late a date, that the characteristics of the party are given in
   accordance with views and practices which belong to a much further
   development of Rabbinical piety. Their fundamental views may, however,
   be gathered from the four opening sentences of the Mishnic Tractate
   Abhoth,' [6341] of which the last are ascribed to Jose the son of
   Joezer, and Jose the son of Jochanan, who, as we know, still belonged
   to the earlier Chasidim.' These flourished about 140 b.c., and later.
   This date throws considerable light upon the relation between the
   earlier' and later' Chasidim, and the origin of the sects of the
   Pharisees and Saducees. Comparing the sentences of the earlier Chasidim
   (Ab. i. 2-4) with those which follow, we notice a marked simplicity
   about them, while the others either indicate a rapid development of
   Rabbinism, or are echoes of the political relations subsisting, or else
   seems to allude to present difficulties or controversies. We infer that
   the earlier' Chasidim represented the pious' in Israel - of course,
   according to the then standpoint - who, in opposition to the Grecian
   party, rallied around Judas Maccabee and his successor, Jonathan. The
   assumption of the High-Priestly dignity by Jonathan the Maccabee, on
   the nomination of the Syrian king (about 152), was a step which the
   ultraorthodox party never forgave the Asmonæans. From that period,
   therefore, we date the alienation of the Chasidim - or rather the
   cessation of the earlier' Chasidim. Henceforth, the party, as such,
   degenerated, or, to speak more correctly, ran into extreme religious
   views, which made them the most advanced section of the Pharisees.
   [6342] The latter and the Saducees henceforth represented the people in
   its twofold religious direction. With this view agrees the statement of
   Josephus (Ant. xiii.5. 9), who first mentions the existence of
   Pharisees and Saducees in the time of Jonathan, and even the confused
   notice in Aboth de Rabbi Nathan 5, which ascribes the origin of the
   Saducees to the first or second generation of Zadok's disciples,
   himself a disciple of Antigonus of Socho, which would bring the date to
   nearly the same time as Josephus.

   From this digression, necessary for the proper understanding of the
   internal relations in Judæa, we return to the political history. There
   was another change on the throne of Syria. Demetrius, the new king
   readily listened to the complaints of a Jewish deputation, and
   appointed their leader, Alcimus (Jakim or Eljakim) High-Priest. At
   first the Chasidin were disposed to support him, as having formerly
   filled a high post in the priesthood, and as the nephew of José the son
   of Jazer, one of their leaders. But they suffered terribly for their
   rashness. Aided by the Syrians, Alcimus seized the Pontificate. But
   Judas once more raised the national standard against the intruder and
   the allies. At first victory seemed to incline to the national side,
   and the day of the final defeat and slaughter of the Syrian army and of
   Nicanor their general was enrolled in the Jewish Calendar as one on
   which fasting and mourning were prohibited (the 13th Adar, or March).
   Still, the prospect was far from reassuring, the more so as division
   had already appeared in the ranks of the Jews. In these circumstances
   Judas directed his eyes towards the new Western power which was
   beginning to overshadow the East. It was a fatal step - the beginning
   of all future troubles - and, even politically, a grave mistake, to
   enter into a defensive and offensive alliance with Rome. But before
   even more temporary advantage could be derived from this measure, Judas
   the Maccabee had already succumbed to superior numbers, and heroically
   fallen in battle against the Syrians.

   The war of liberation had lasted seven years, and yet when the small
   remnant of the Asmonæan party chose Jonathan, the youngest brother of
   Judas, as his successor, their cause seemed more hopeless than almost
   at any previous period. The Grecian party were dominant in Judæa, the
   Syrian host occupied the land and Jonathan and his adherents were
   obliged to retire to the other side Jordan. The only hope, if such it
   may be called, lay in the circumstances that after the death of Alcimus
   the Pontificate was not filled by another Syrian nominee, but remained
   vacant for two years. During this time the nationalists must have
   gained strength, since the Grecian party now once more sought and
   obtained Syrian help against them. But the almost passive resistance
   which Jonathan successfully offered wearied out the Syrian general and
   led to a treaty of peace (1 Macc. ix. 58-73).In the period which
   followed, the Asmonæan party steadily increased, so that when a rival
   king claimed the Syrian crown, both pretenders bade for the support of
   Jonathan. He took the side of the new monarch, Alexander Balas, who
   sent him a crown of gold and a purple mantle, and appointed him
   High-Priest, a dignity which Jonathan at once accepted. [6343] The
   Jewish Pontiff was faithful to his patron even against a new claimant
   to the crown of Syria. [6344] And such was his influence, that the
   latter, on gaining possession of the throne, not only forgave the
   resistance of Jonathan, but confirmed him in the Pontificate, and even
   remitted the taxation of Palestine on a tribute (probably annual) of
   300 talents. But the faithlessness and ingratitude of the Syrian king
   led Jonathan soon afterwards to take the side of another Syrian
   pretender, an infant, whose claims were ostensibly defended by his
   general Trypho. In the end, however, Jonathan's resistance to Trypho's
   schemes for obtaining the crown for himself led to the murder of the
   Jewish High-Priest by treachery.

   The government of Judæa could not, in these difficult times, have
   developed upon one more fitted for it than Simon, an elder brother of
   Judas Maccabee. His father had, when making his dying disposition,
   already designated him as the man of counsel' among his sons (1 Macc.
   ii. 65). Simon's policy lay chiefly in turning to good account the
   disputes in Syria, and in consolidating such rule as he had acquired
   (143-135 b.c). After the murder of his brother by Trypho, he took part
   of the Syrian claimant (Demetrius) to whom Trypho was opposed.
   Demetrius was glad to purchase his support by a remission of all
   taxation for all time to come. This was the first great success, and
   the Jews perpetuated its memory by enrolling its anniversary (the 27th
   Iyar, or May) in their Calendar. An even more important date, alike in
   the Calendar' (Meg. Taan. Per. 2) and in Jewish history (1 Macc. xiii.
   51), was the 23rd Iyar, when the work of clearing the country of the
   foreigner was completed by the Syrian party. The next measures of Simon
   were directed to the suppression of the Grecian party in Judæa, and the
   establishments of peace and security to his own adherents. To the
   popular mind this Golden Age' described in glowing language in 1 Macc.
   xiv. 8-14, seemed to culimnate in an event by which the national vanity
   was gratified and the future safety of their country apparently
   ensured. This was the arrival of a Roman embassy in Judæa to renew the
   league which had already been made both by Judas Maccabee and by
   Jonathan. Simon replied by sending a Jewish embassy to Rome, which
   brought a valuable shield of gold in token of gratitude. In their
   intoxication the Jews passed a decree, and engraved it on tables of
   brass, making Simon their High-Priest and a Governor forever, until
   there should arise a faithful prophet;' in other words, appointing him
   to the twofold office of spiritual and secular chief, and declaring it
   hereditary (1 Macc. xiv. 41-45). The fact that he should have been
   appointed to dignities which both he and his predecessor had already
   held, and that offices which in themselves were hereditary should now
   be declared such in the family of Simon, as well as the significant
   limitation: until there should arise a faithful prophet,' sufficiently
   indicate that there were dissensions among the people and opposition to
   the Asmonæans. In truth, as the Chasidim had already had been
   alienated, so there was a growing party among the Pharisees, their
   successors, whose hostility to the Asmonæans increased till it
   developed into positive hatred. This antagonism was, however, not
   grounded on their possession of the secular power, but on their
   occupancy of the Pontificate, perhaps on their combination of the two
   offices. How far their enmity went, will appear in the sequel. For a
   time it was repressed by the critical state of affairs. For, the
   contest with the Syrians had to be once more renewed, and although
   Simon, or rather his sons, obtained the victory, the aged High-Priest
   and two of his sons, Mattathias and Judas, fell by the treachery of
   Ptolomæus, Simon's son-in-law.

   The Pontificate and the government now developed upon the only one of
   Simon's sons still left, known as John Hyranus I. (Jochanan Horkenos,
   [6345] Jannai [6346] ), 135-105 b.c. His first desire naturally was to
   set free his mother, who was still in the power of Ptolomæus, and to
   chastise him for his crimes. But in this he failed. Ptolemy purchased
   immunity by threatening to kill his captive, and afterwards
   treacherously slew her. Soon after this a Syrian army besieged
   Jerusalem. The City was reduced to great straits. But when at the Feast
   of Tabernacles the Syrian king not only granted a truce to the
   besieged, but actually provided them with what was needed for the
   services of the Temple, Hyrcanus sought and obtained peace, although
   the Syrian councillors urged their king to use the opportunity for
   exterminating Jerusalem. The conditions, though hard, were not
   unreasonable in the circumstances. But fresh troubles in Syria gave a
   more favourable turn to affairs in Judæa. First, Hyrcanus subjected
   Samaria, and then conquered Idumæa, whose inhabitants he made
   proselytes by giving them the alternative of circumcision or exile.
   Next, the treaty with the Romans was renewed, and finally Hyrcanus
   availed himself of the rapid decay of the Syrian monarchy to throw off
   his allegiance to the foreigner. Jewish exclusiveness was further
   gratified by the utter destruction of Samaria, of which the
   memorial-day (the 25th Marcheshvan, November) was inserted in the
   festive Calendar' (Meg. Taan. Per. 8). [6347] Nor was this the only
   date which his successors added to the calendar of national feasts.
   [6348]

   But his reign is of the deepest importance in our history as marking
   the first public contest between the great parties, the Pharisees and
   the Saducees, and also as the turning-point in the history of the
   Maccabees. Even the coins of that period are instructive. They bear the
   inscription: Jochanan, the High-Priest, and the Chebher of the Jews; or
   else, Jochanan the High-Priest, Chief, and the Chebher of the Jews.'
   [6349] The term Chebher, which on the coins occurs only in connection
   with High-Priest,' unquestionably refers, not to the Jewish people
   generally, but to them in their ecclesiastical organisation, and points
   therefore to the acknowledgment of an Eldership,' or representative
   body, which presided over affairs along with and under the High-Priest'
   as Chief.' [6350] In this respect the presence or absence of the word
   Chebher,' or even mention of the Jews, might afford hints as to the
   relationship of a Maccabee chief to the ecclesiastical leaders of the
   people. It has already been explained that the Chasidim, viewed as the
   National party, had ceased, and that the leaders were now divided into
   Pharisees and Sadducees. By tradition and necessity Hyrcanus belonged
   to the former, by tendency and. probably, inclination to the later. His
   interference in religious affairs was by no means to the liking of the
   Pharisees, still less to that of their extreme sectaries, the Chasidim.
   Tradition ascribes to Hyrcanus no less than nine innovations, of which
   only five were afterwards continued as legal ordinances. First, the
   payment of tithes (both of the Levitical and the so-called poor's
   tithe') was declared no longer obligatory on a seller, if he were one
   of the Am ha-Arets, or country people, but on the buyer. [6351]
   Complaints had long been made that this heavy impost was not paid by
   the majority of the common people, and it was deemed better to devote
   the responsibility on the buyer, unless the seller were what was called
   neeman,' trusted; i.e., one who had solemnly bound himself to pay
   tithes. In connection with this, secondly, the declaration ordered in
   Deut. xxvi.3-10 was abrogated as no longer applicable. Thirdly, all
   work that caused noise was forbidden during the days intermediate
   between the first and the last great festive days of the Passover and
   of the Feast of Tabernacles. Fourthly, the formula: Awake, why sleepest
   Thou, O Lord' (Ps. xliv. 23), with which, since the Syrian persecution,
   the morning service in the Temple had commenced, was abolished.
   Fifthly, the cruel custom of wounding the sacrificial animals on the
   head was prohibited and rings fastened in the pavement to which the
   animals were attached (Jer. Maas. Sh. v. 9; Jer. Sot. ix. 11; Tos. Sot.
   13; Sotah 48 a). The four ordinances of Hyrcanus which were abolished
   referred to the introduction in official documents, after the title of
   the High-Priest, of the expression El Elyon' - the Most High God; to
   the attempt to declare the Syrian and Samaritan towns liable to tithes
   (implying their virtual incorporation) while according to an old
   principle, this obligation only applied when a place could be reached
   from Judea without passing over heathen soil; to the abrogation by
   Hyrcanus of a former enactment by Jose ben Joezer, which discouraged
   emigration by declaring all heathen soil defiled, and which rendered
   social intercourse with Gentiles impossible by declaring vessels of
   glass capable of contracting Levitical defilement (Jer. Shabb. 1. 4;
   Shabb.14 b) - and which was re-enacted; and, lastly, to the easy terms
   on which the King had admitted the Idumæans into the Jewish community.

   From all this it is not difficult to from an idea of the relations
   between Hyrcanus and the Pharisees. If Hyrcanus had not otherwise known
   of the growing aversion of the Pharisees, a Sadducean friend and
   councillor kept him informed, and turned it to account for his party.
   The story of the public breach between Hyrcanus and the Pharisees is
   told by Josephus (Ant. xiii. 10. 5, 6), and in the Talmud (Kidd. 66 a),
   with only variations of names and details. Whether from a challenge
   thrown out to the Pharisees (according to the Talmud), or in answer to
   a somewhat strange request by Hyrcanus, to point out any part of his
   conduct which was not in accordance with the law (so Josephus), one of
   the extreme section of the Pharisees, [6352] at a feast given to the
   party, called upon Hyrcanus to be content with secular power, and to
   resign the Pontificate, on the ground that he was disqualified for it,
   because his mother had been a captive of war. Even the Talmud admits
   that this report was calumnious, while it offered a gratuitous insult
   to the memory of a really noble heroic woman, all the more
   unwarrantable that the Pontificate had, by public decree, been made the
   case if the charge now brought had been other than a pretext to cover
   the hostility of the Chasidim. The rash avowal was avenged on the whole
   party. In the opinion of Hyrcanus they all proved themselves
   accomplishes, when, on being questioned, they declared the offender
   only guilty of stripes and bonds.' Hyrcanus now joined the Sadducees,
   and although the statement of the Talmud about the slaughter of the
   leading Pharisees is incorrect, there can be no doubt that they were
   removed from power and exposed to persecution. The Talmud adds this,
   which, although chronologically incorrect, is significant, Jochanan the
   High-Priest served in the Pontificate eighty years, and at the end of
   them he became a Sadducee.' But this was only the beginning of troubles
   to the Pharisaic party, which revenged itself by most bitter hatred -
   the beginning, also of the decline of the Maccabbes.

   Hycranus left five sons. To the oldest of them, Aristobulus (in Hebew
   Jehudah), he bequeathed the Pontificate, but appointed his own widow to
   succeed him in the secular government. But Aristobulus cast his mother
   into prison, where she soon afterwards perished - as the story went, by
   hunger. The only one of his brothers whom he had left at large, and
   who, indeed, was his favourite, soon fell also a victim to his jealous
   suspicions. Happily his reign lasted only one year (105-104 b.c.). He
   is described as openly favouring the Grecian party, although, on
   conquering Ituræa, a district east of Lake of Galilee, [6353] he
   obliged its inhabitants to submit to circumcision.

   On the death of Aristobulus. I., his widow, Alexandra Salome, released
   his brothers from prison, and apparently married the eldest of them,
   Alexander Jannæus (or in Hebrew Jonathan), who succeeded both to the
   Pontificate and the secular government. The three periods of his reign
   (104-78 b.c.) seem indicated in the varying inscriptions on his coins.
   [6354] The first period, which lasted eight or ten years, was that in
   which Jannai was engaged in those wars of conquest, which added the
   cities on the maritime coast to his possessions. [6355] During the time
   Salome seems to have managed internal affairs. As she was devoted to
   the Pharisaic party - indeed one of their leaders, Simeon ben Shetach,
   is said to have been her brother (Ber.18 a) - this was the time of
   their ascendency. Accordingly, the coins of that period bear the
   inscription, Jonathan the High-Priest and the Chebher of the Jews.' But
   on his return to Jerusalem he found the arrogance of the Pharisaic
   party ill accordant with his own views and tastes. The king now joined
   the Sadducees, and Simeon ben Shetach had to seek safety in flight
   (Jer. Ber. vii. 2 p. 11 b). But others of his party met a worse fate. A
   terrible tragedy was enacted in the Temple itself. At the Feast of
   Tabernacles Jannai, officiating as High-Priest, set the Pharisaic
   custom at open defiance by pouring the water out of the sacred vessel
   on the ground instead of upon the altar. Such a high-handed breach of
   what was regarded as most sacred, excited the feelings of the
   worshippers to the highest pitch of frenzy. They pelted him with the
   festive Ethrogs (citrons), which they carried in their hands, and
   loudly reproached him with his descent from a captive.' The king called
   in his foreign mercenaries, and no fewer than 6,000 of the people fell
   under their swords. This was an injury which could neither be forgiven
   nor atoned for by conquests. One insurrection followed after the other,
   and 5,000 of the people are said to have fallen in these contests.
   Weary of the strife, Jannai asked the Pharisaic party to name their
   conditions of peace, to which they caustically replied, Thy death'
   (Jos. Ant. xiii. 13. 5). Indeed, such was the embitterment that they
   actually called in, and joined the Syrians against him. But the success
   of the foreigner produced a popular revulsion in his favour, of which
   Jannai profited to take terrible vengeance of his opponents. No fewer
   than 800 of them were nailed to the cross, their sufferings being
   intensified by seeing their wives and children butchered before their
   eyes, while the degenerate Pontiff lay feasting with abandoned women. A
   general flight of the Pharisees ensued. This closes the second period
   of his reign, marked on the coin by the significant absence of the
   words Chebher of the Jews.' the words being on one side in Hebrew,
   Jonathan the king,' and on the other in Greek, Alexander the King.'

   The third period is marked by coins which bear the inscription
   Jehonathan the High-Priest and the Jews.' It was a period of outward
   military success, and of reconciliation with the Pharisees, or at least
   of their recall - notable of Simeon ben Shetach, and then of his
   friends - probably at the instigation of the queen (Ber. 48 a; Jer.
   vii. 2). Jannai died in his fiftieth year, after a reign of
   twenty-seven years, bequeathing the government to his wife Salome. On
   his death-bed he is said to have advised her to promote the Pharisees,
   or rather such of them as made not their religiousness a mere pretext
   intrigue: Be not afraid of the Pharisees, nor of those of Zimri, and
   seek the reward of Phinehas' (Sot. 22 b). But of chief interest to us
   is, that this period of the recall of the Pharisees marks a great
   internal change, indicated even in the coins. For the first time we now
   meet the designation Sanhedrin.' The Chebher, or eldership, had ceased
   as a ruling power, and become transformed into a Sanhedrin, or
   ecclesiastical authority although the latter endeavoured, with more or
   less success, to arrogate to itself civil jurisdiction, at least in
   ecclesiastical matters. [6356]

   The nine years of Queen Alexandra's (in Hebrew Salome) reign were the
   Golden Age of the Pharisees, when heaven itself smiled on a land that
   was wholly subject to their religious sway. In the extravagant language
   of the Talmud (Tann. 23 a, second line from top): In the days of Simeon
   ben Shetach, the rains came down in the nights of fourth days, [6357]
   and on those of the Sabbaths, so that the grains of corn became like
   kidneys, those of barley the stones of olives, and lentils like gold
   dinars, and they preserved a specimen (dogma) of them for future
   generations to show them what disastrous result may follow upon sin.'
   That period of miraculous blessing was compared to the equally
   miraculous dispensation of heaven during the time that the Temple of
   Herod was building, when rain only fell at night, while the morning
   wind and heat dried all, so that the builders could continue their work
   without delay. [6358] Queen Salome had appointed her eldest son,
   Hyrcanus II., a weak prince, to the Poltificate. But, as Josephus puts
   it (Am. xiii. 16. 2), although Salome had the title, the Pharisees held
   the real rule of the country, and they administered it with the
   harshness, insolence, and recklessness of a fanatical religious party
   which suddenly obtains unlimited power. The lead was, of course, taken
   by Simeon ben Shetach, whom even the Talmud characterises as having hot
   hands' (Jer. Sanh. vi. 5, [6359] p. 23 b). First, all who were
   suspected of Sadducean leaning were removed by intrigue or violence
   form the Sanhedrin. Next, previous ordinances differing from
   Pharisaical views were abrogated, and others breathing their spirit
   substituted. So sweeping and thorough was the change wrought, that the
   Sadducees never recovered the blow, and whatever they might teach, yet
   those in office were obligated in all time coming to conform to
   Pharisaic practice (Jos. Ant. xviii. 1.4; Tos Yoma i. 8).

   But the Pharisaic party were not content with dogmatical victories,
   even though they celebrated each of them by the insertion in the
   Calendar of a commemorative feast-day. Partly, to discourage the
   Sadducees,' partly from the supposed necessities of the time, and to
   teach others' (to make an example; Siphré on Deut.), they carried their
   principles even beyond their utmost inferences, and were guilty of such
   injustice and cruelty, that, according to tradition, Simeon even
   condemned his own innocent son to death, for the sake of logical
   consistency. [6360] On the other hand, the Pharisaic party knew how to
   flatter the queen, by introducing a series of ordinances which
   protected the rights of married women and rendered divorce more
   difficult. [6361] The only ordinance of Simeon ben Shetach, which
   deserves permanent record, is that which enjoined regular school
   attendance by all children, although it may have been primarily
   intended to place the education of the country in the hands of the
   Pharisees. The general discontent caused by the tyranny of the
   Pharisees must have rallied most of the higher classes to the party of
   the Sadducees. It led at last to remonstrance with the queen, and was
   probably the first occasion of that revolt of Aristobulus, the younger
   son of Salome, which darkened the last days of her reign.

   Salome died (in the beginning of 69 b.c.) before the measures proposed
   against Aristobulus could be carried out. Although Hyrcanus II. now
   united the royal office with the Pontificate, his claims were disputed
   by his brother Aristobulus II., who conquered, and obliged his brother
   to abdicate in his favour his twofold dignity. To cement their
   reconciliation, Alexander the son of Arisobulus married Alexandra the
   daughter of Hycranus. They little thought how ill-fated that union
   would prove. For already another power was intriguing to interpose in
   Jewish affairs, with which it was henceforth to be identified.
   Alexander Hannai had appointed one Antipas, or Antipater - of whose
   origin the most divergent accounts are given [6362] - to the
   governorship of Idumæa. He was succeeded by a son of the same name. The
   dissension between the two Asmonæans seemed to offer the opportunity
   for realising his ambitious schemes. Of course, he took the part of the
   weak Hyrcanus as against the warlike Aristobulus, and persuaded the
   former that he was in danger of his life. Ultimately he prevailed on
   him to fly to Aretas, King of Arabia, who, in consideration of liberal
   promises, undertook to reinstate Hycranus in the government. The Arab
   army proved successful, and was joined by a large proportion of the
   troops of Aristobulus, who was not shut up within the fortified
   Temple-buildings. To add to the horrors of war, a long famine desolated
   the land. It was during its prevalence that Onias, reputed for his
   omnipotence in prayer, achieved what procured for him the designation
   hammeaggel' - the circle drawer.' [6363] When his prayer for rain
   remained unanswered, he drew a circle around him, declaring his
   determination not to leave it till the Almighty had granted rain, and
   that not in drops, nor yet in desolating floods (which successively
   happened), but in copious, refreshing showers. It could serve no good
   purpose to reproduce the realistic manner in which this supposed power
   of the Rabbi with God is described (Taan. 23 a). But it were difficult
   to say whether this is more repugnant to feelings of reverence, or the
   reported reproof of Simeon ben Shetach, who forbore to pronounce the
   ban upon him because he was like a spoilt child who might ask anything
   of his father, and would obtain it. But this supposed power ultimately
   proved fatal to Onias during the siege of Jerusalem by Hyrcanus and
   Aretas. [6364] Refusing to intercede either for one or the other of the
   rival brothers, he was stoned to death (Ant. xiv. 2. 1).

   But already another power had appeared on the scene. Pompey was on his
   victorious march through Asia when both parties appeal to him for help.
   Scaurus, whom Pompey detached to Syria, was, indeed, bought by
   Aristobulus, and Aretas was ordered to raise the siege of Jerusalem.
   But Pompey quickly discovered that Hycranus might, under the tutelage
   of the cunning Idumæan, Antipater, prove an instrument more likely to
   serve his ulterior purposes than Aristobulus. Three deputations
   appeared before Pompey at Damascus - those of the two brothers, and one
   independent of both, which craved the abolition of the Asmonæan rule
   and the restoration of the former mode of government, as we understand
   it, by the Chebher' or Eldership under the presidency of the
   High-Priest. It need scarcely be said that such a demand would find no
   response. The consideration of the rival claims of the Asmonæans Pompey
   postponed. The conduct of Aristobulus not only confirmed the
   unfavourable impression which the insolent bearing of his deputies had
   made on Pompey, but sealed his own fate and that of the Jewish people.
   Pompey laid siege to Jerusalem. The adherents of Hyrcanus surrendered
   the City, but those of Aristobulus retired into the Temple. At last the
   sacred precincts were taken by storm amidst fearful carnage. The
   priests, who were engaged in their sacred functions, [6365] and who
   continued them during this terrible scene, were cut down at the altar.
   No fewer than 12,000 Jews are said to have perished.

   With the taking of Jerusalem by Pompey (63 b.c.) the history of the
   Maccabees as a reigning family, and, indeed, that of the real
   independence of Palestine, came to an end. So truly did Jewish
   tradition realise this, that it has left us not a single notice either
   of this capture of Jerusalem or of all the subsequent sad events to the
   time of Herod. It is as if their silence meant that for them Judæa, in
   its then state, had no further history. Still, the Roman conquerer had
   as yet dealt gently with his prostrate victim. Pompey had, indeed,
   penetrated into the most Holy Place in contemptuous outrage of the most
   sacred feelings of Israel; but he left the treasure of the Temple
   untouched, and even made provision for the continuance of its services.
   Those who had caused the resistance of Jerusalem were executed, and the
   country made tributary to Rome. But Judæa not only became subject to
   the Roman Governor of Syria, its boundaries were also narrowed. All the
   Grecian cities had their independence restored; Samaria was freed from
   Jewish supremacy; and the districts comprised within the so-called
   Decapolis (or ten cities') again obtained self-government. It was a
   sadly curtailed land over which Hyrcanus II., as High-Priest, was left
   Governor, without being allowed to wear the diadem (Ant. xx. 10).
   Aristobulus II. had to adorn as captive the triumphal entry of the
   conquerer into Rome. [6366]

   The civil rule of Hycranus as Ethnarch must from the first have been
   very limited. It was still more contracted when, during the
   Proconsulate of Ganinius (57-55 b.c.), [6367] Alexander, a son of
   Aristobulus, who had escaped from captivity, tried to possess himself
   of the government of Judæa (Ant. xiv. 5. 2-4). The office of Hyrcanus
   was now limited to the Temple, and the Jewish territory, divided into
   five districts, was apportioned among five principal cities, ruled by a
   council of local notables (ristoi). Thus, for a short time, monarchical
   gave place to aristocratic government in Palestine. The renewed
   attempts of Aristobulus or of his family to recover power only led to
   fresh troubles, which were sadly diversified by the rapacity and
   severity of the Romans. The Triumvir Crassus, who succeeded Gabinius
   (55-53 b.c.), plundered the Temple not only of its treasures but of its
   precious vessels. A new but not much happier era began with Julius
   Cæsar. If Aristobulus and his son Alexander had not fallen victims to
   the party of Pompey, the prospects of Hyrcanus and Antipater might now
   have been very unpromising. But their death and that of Pompey (whom
   they had supported) changed the aspect of matters. Antipater not only
   espoused the cause of the victor of Pharsalus, but made himself
   eminently useful to Cæsar. In reward, Hyrcanus was confirmed as Pontiff
   and Ethnarch of Judæa, while Antipater was made a Roman citizen and
   nominated Epitrophos, or (Roman) administrator of the country. Of
   course, the real power was in the hands of the Idumæan, who continued
   to hold it, despite the attempts of Antigonus, the only surviving son
   of Aristobulus. And from henceforth Cæsar made it part of his policy to
   favour the Jews (comp. the decrees in their favour, Ant. xiv. 10).

   Meantime Antipater had, in pursuance of his ambitious plans, appointed
   his son Phasael Governor of Jerusalem, and Herod Governor of Galilee.
   The latter, although only twenty-five years of age, soon displayed the
   vigour and sternness which characterised his after-career. He quelled
   what probably was a nationalist' rising in Galilee, in the blood of
   Ezekias, its leader, and of his chief associates. This indeed secured
   him the favour of Sextus Cæsar, the Governor of Syria, a relative of
   the great Imperator. But in Jerusalem, and among the extreme Pharisaic
   party, it excited the utmost indignation. They foresaw the advent of a
   foe most dangerous to their interests and liberty, and vainly sought to
   rid themselves of him. It was argued that the government of the country
   was in the hands of the High-Priest, and that Herod, as Governor of
   Galilee, appointed by a foreign administrator, had no right to
   pronounce capital punishment without a sentence of the Sanhedrin.
   Hycranus yielded to the clamour; but Herod appeared before the
   Sanhedrin, not as a criminal, but arrayed in purple, surrounded by a
   body-guard, and supported by the express command of Sextus Cæsar to
   acquit him. The story which is related, though in different version,
   and with different names, in the Talmud (Sanh. 19 a), and by Josephus
   (Ant. xiv. 9. 3-5), presents a vivid picture of what passed in the
   Sanhedrin. The appearance of Herod had so terrified that learned body
   that none ventured to speak, till their president, Shemajah (Sameas),
   by his bold speech, rallied their courage. Most truly did he foretell
   the fate which overtook them ten years later, when Herod ruled in the
   Holy City. But Hyrcanus adjourned the meeting of the Sanhedrin, and
   persuaded Herod to withdraw from Jerusalem. His was, however, only a
   temporary humiliation. Sextus Cæsar named Herod Governor of
   Coele-Syria, and he soon appeared with an army before Jerusalem, to
   take vengeance on Hycranus and the Sanhedrin. The entreaties of his
   father and brother induced him, indeed, to desist for the time, but ten
   years later alike Hyrcanus and the members of the Sanhedrin fell
   victims to his revenge.

   Another turn of affairs seemed imminent when Cæsar fell under the
   daggers of the conspirators (15 March, 44), and Cassius occupied Syria.
   But Antipater and Herod proved as willing and able to serve him as
   formerly Cæsar. Antipater, indeed, perished through a court - or
   perhaps a Nationalist' plot, but his murderers soon experienced the
   same fate at the hands of those whom Herod had hired for the purpose.
   And still the star of Herod seemed in the ascendant. Not only did he
   repel attempted inroads by Antigonus, but when Antonius and Octavianus
   (in 42 b.c.) took the place of Brutus and Cassius, he succeeded once
   more in ingratiating himself with the former, on whom the government of
   Asis devolved. The accusations made by Jewish deputation had no
   influence on Antony. Indeed, he went beyond his predecessors in
   appointing Phasael and Herod tetrarchs of Judæa. Thus the civil power
   was now nominally as well as really in their hands. But the restless
   Antigonus was determined not to forego his claim. When the power of
   Antony was fast waning, in consequence of his reckless indulgences,
   Antigonus seized the opportunity of the incursion of the Parthians into
   Asia Minor to attend the great object of his ambition. In Jerusalem the
   adherents of the two parties were engaged in daily conflicts, when a
   Parthian division appeared. By treachery Phasael and Hycranus were
   lured into the Parthian camp, and finally handed over to Antigonus.
   Herod, warned in time, had escaped from Jerusalem with his family and
   armed adherents. Of his other opponents Antigonus made sure. To unfit
   Hyrcanus for the Pontificate his ears were cut off, while Phasael
   destroyed himself in prison. Antigonus was now undisputed High-Priest
   and king. His brief reign of three years (40-37 b.c.) is marked by
   coins which bear in Hebrew the device: Matthatjah the High-Priest, and
   in Greek: King Antigonus.

   The only hope of Herod lay in Roman help. He found Antony in Rome. What
   difficulties there were, were removed by gold, and when Octavian gave
   his consent, a decree of the Senate declared Antigonus the enemy of
   Rome, and at the same time appointed Herod King of Judæa (40 b.c.).
   Early in the year 39 b.c. Herod was in Palestine to conquer his new
   kingdom by help of the Romans. But their aid was at first tardy and
   reluctant, and it was 38, or more probably 37, before Herod could gain
   possession of Jerusalem itself. Before that he had wedded the beautiful
   and unhappy Mariamme, the daughter of Alexander and granddaughter of
   Hyrcanus, to whom he had been betrothed five years before. His
   conquered capital was desolate indeed, and its people impoverished by
   exactions. But Herod had reached the goal of his ambition. All
   opposition was put down, all rivalry rendered impossible. Antigonus was
   beheaded, as Herod had wished; the feeble and aged Hyrcanus was
   permanently disqualified for the Pontificate; and any youthful
   descendants of the Maccabees left were absolutely in the conqueror's
   power. The long struggle for power had ended, and the Asmonæan family
   was virtually destroyed. Their sway had lasted about 130 years.

   Looking back on the rapid rise and decline of the Maccabees, on their
   speedy degeneration, on the deeds of cruelty with which their history
   soon became stained, on the selfishness and reckless ambition which
   characterized them, and especially on the profoundly anti-nationalist
   and anti-Pharisaic, we had almost said anti-Jewish, tendency which
   marked their sway, we can understand the bitter hatred with which
   Jewish tradition had followed their memory. The mention of them is of
   the scantiest. No universal acclamation glorifies even the deeds of
   Judas the Maccabee; no Talmudic tractate is devoted to that feast of
   the dedication' which celebrated the purging of the Temple and the
   restoration of Jewish worship. In fact such was the feeling, that the
   priestly course of Joiarib - to which the Asmonæans belonged - is said
   to have been on service when the first and the second Temple were
   destroyed, because guilt was to be punished on the guilty.' More than
   that, R. Levi saith: Yehoyaribh ["Jehovah will contend"], the man [the
   name of the man or family]; Meron ["rebellion," evidently a play upon
   Modin, the birthplace of the Maccabees], the town; Mesarbey ["the
   rebels," evidently a play upon Makkabey] - (masar beitha) He hath given
   up the Temple to the enemies.' Rabbi Berachjah saith: Yah heribh
   [Jehoiarib], God contended with His children, because they revolted and
   rebelled against Him' (Jer. Taan. iv. 8, p. 68 d, line 35 from bottom).
   [6368] Indeed, the opprobrious designation of rebellion, and Sarbaney
   El, rebels against God, became in course of time so identified with the
   Maccabees. that it was used when its meaning was no longer understood.
   Thus Origen (Euseb. Hist. Eccl. vi. 25) speaks of the (Apocryphal)
   books of the Maccabees as inscribed Sarbeth Sarbane El' (={hebrew}),
   the disobedience, or rebellion (resistance) of the disobedient, or
   rebels, against God. [6369] So thoroughly had these terms become
   identified in popular parlance, that even the tyranny and cruelty of a
   Herod could not procure a milder judgment on the sway of the Asmonæans.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [6326] We do not here discuss the question, whether or not Alexander
   really entered Jerusalem. Jewish legend has much to tell of him, and
   reports many supposed inquiries on his part or discussions between him
   and the Rabbis, that prove at least the deep impression which his
   appearance had made, and the permanent results which followed from it.

   [6327] Comp. Herzfeld, Gesch. d. Volkes Isr, vol. ii. passim, but
   specially pp. 181 and 211.

   [6328] I have placed Johanan (Neh. xii. 22) before Jonathan, in
   accordance with the ingenious reasoning of Herzfeld, ii. p. 372. The
   chronology of their Pontificates is almost inextricably involved. In
   other respects also there are not a few difficulties. See Zunz,
   Gottesd. Vortr. p. 27, and the elaborate discussions of Herzfeld, whose
   work, however, is very faulty in arrangement.

   [6329] Happily no divergence exists as to their succession.

   [6330] Some Christian and all Jewish writers assign the designation of
   The Just' to Simon II. This is directly contrary to the express
   statement of Josephus. Herzfeld (i. 377) appeals to Abhoth i. 2, 3,
   Men. 109 b, and Jer. Yoma vi. 3, but immediately relinquishes the two
   latter references as otherwise historically untenable. But surely no
   historical inference - for such it is - from Ab. i. 2, 3 is worth
   setting against the express statement of Josephus. Besides, Zunz has
   rightly shown that the expression Qibbel must not be to closely
   pressed, as indeed its use throughout the Perek seems to indicate
   (Gottesd. Vortr. p. 37, Note).

   [6331] Of this more in the sequel. He is called {hebrew} which however
   does not seem necessary to imply that he was actually a member of it.

   [6332] It deserves notice that in these same Talmudic passages
   reference is also made to the later entire cessation of the same
   miracles, as indicating the coming destruction of the Temple.

   [6333] Or as he is designated in the Talmud; Chonyi, Nechunyah, and
   even Nechunyon. Onias is a Grecianised form - itself a significant
   fact.

   [6334] In 1 Macc. x. 29-33; Jos. And. xii;3. 3; xiii, 2. 3. In view of
   these express testimonies the statement of Ewald (Gesch. d. V. Isr.
   vol. iv. p. 373), to the effect that Palestine, or at least Jerusalem,
   enjoyed immunity from taxation, seems strange indeed. Schürer (u.s.p.
   71) passes rather lightly over the troubles in Judæa before Antiochus
   Epiphanes.

   [6335] Herzfeld rightly corrects Benjamin' in 2 Macc. iii. 4. Comp. u.
   s. p. 218.

   [6336] The notice in Jos. Ant. xii. 5. 1 must be corrected by the
   account in 2 Macc. Comp. Herzfeld, u. s.

   [6337] Besides Talmudic and Midrashic notices, we here refer to that
   most interesting and ancient Megillath Taanith, or Rolls of Fasts,' of
   which a translation is given in Appendix V. The passages bearing on
   this period are collected in Derenbourg, Hist. de la Palestine, pp.
   59-63, although his reference to that on the 28th of Adar is at least
   open to controversy.

   [6338] The designation Maccabee' was originally given to Judas (1 Macc.
   ii. 4, 66; iii. 1; v. 24, 34). The name was, like that of Charles
   Martel, probably derived from {hebrew}, or in Chaldee {hebrew}, a
   hammer. Comp. Josippon ben Gorion, iii, 9. 7 (ed. Breithaupt, p. 200) -
   only that he writes the name with a {hebrew}, and not a {hebrew}.

   [6339] {hebrew}. Josephus (Ant. xii. 6. 1) derives the word from
   Asmonoeus, the great grandfather of Mattathias. Others derive it from
   the word {hebrew} (princes' in A.V. Ps. ixviii. 31).

   [6340] The Syrian force is said to have amounted to 100,000 footmen,
   20,000 horsemen, and 32 war-elephants (1 Macc. vi. 30).

   [6341] We regard the opening sentence of Abhoth as marking out the
   general principles and aims of the so-called Great Assembly.'

   [6342] A somewhat analogous change, at least of theological opinions,
   distinguishes the later from the earlier Puritans.' Theological schools
   which are partly political in their early history often degenerate
   either into political partisans or else into extreme sectaries, as
   either one or the other of their rationes vivendi ceases.

   [6343] The Pharisees never forgave this. It is quite true that this
   plea for their opposition to the Asmonæans is for the first time
   reported during a later reign - that of John Hyrcanus I. - and that it
   was then ostensibly based on the ground of Hyrcanus' mother having been
   a captive of war. But see our remarks on this point further on.

   [6344] The story, however, differently told by Josephus (Ant. Xiii. 4.
   3). I have followed the account in 1 Macc., which is generally regarded
   as the more trustworthy, though I am not without misgivings, since
   Josephus evidently had the Book of Maccabees before him.

   [6345] The derivation of the name Hyrcanus, or in Rabbinical writings
   Horqenos, proposed by Grätz (Geesch. d. Juden. vol. ii. p. 55), and
   supported by Hamburger (Real. Encycl. für Bibel u. Talmud, sect ii. p.
   421, note 15) is untenable, in view of the fact, that not a few
   Rabbinical authorities bore the same name (comp. Ab. ii. 8; Sanh. 68
   a). It could not, therefore, the victory of Hyrcanus over Cendeboeus,
   the Hyrcanian.'

   [6346] The name Jannai is supposed to have been an abbreviation of
   Jochanan. Many Rabbinic teachers of that name are mentioned. Derenbourg
   (Hist. de la Palest. p. 95) regards it as an abbreviation of Jonathan,
   but his reasoning is not convincing.

   [6347] According to Jer. Soath ix. 13, and Sot. 33 a, a Bath Qol,' or
   Heavenly Voice, issuing from the Most Holy Place, had announced to
   Hyrcanus, while officiating in the Temple, the victory of his sons at
   Samaria. Josephus (Ant. xiii. 10. 7), assigns on this ground to
   Hyrcanus the prophetic, as well as the priestly and royal, title.

   [6348] These are the 15th and 16th Sivan, the 16th Adar, and the 7th
   Iyar. Comp. the Meg. Taan.

   [6349] Schürer (Neutest. Zeitg. p. 113) does not give this inscription
   correctly. Comp. Levy, Gesch. d. Jud. Munzen, pp. 52, 53. See
   especially Madden. Coins of the Jews,' pp. 74-81, where all the
   varieties of inscription are given.

   [6350] We dismiss the fanciful readings and explanations of the word
   {hebrew} by De Saulcy and Ewald. But I cannot agree with Schürer in
   applying it to the people as a whole. Even the passage which he quotes
   (Ber, iv. 7, with which the corresponding Gemara should be compared),
   proves that the word is not used loosely for the people, but with
   reference to their ecclesiastical nexus. Comp, also Meg. 27 b.

   [6351] Comp. Sketches of Jewish Social Life in the Time of Christ,' pp.
   233, 234.

   [6352] Josephus calls him Eleazar, but the Talmud (Kidd. 66 a) Jehudah
   ben Gedidim, for which Hamburger would read Nedidim, the sect of the
   solitaries,' which he regards as another designation for the extreme
   Chasidim.

   [6353] By a curious mistake, Schürer locates Ituræa north instead of
   east of the Lake of Galilee, and speaks of Jewish tradition' as drawing
   such a dark picture of Aristobulus. Dr. S. must refer to Josephus,
   since Jewish tradition never named Aristobulus (Neuest. Zeitg. p. 118).

   [6354] For the coins of that reign comp. Madden, u. s. pp. 83-93. I
   have however arranged them somewhat differently.

   [6355] According, on the second series of coins, which date from his
   return to Jerusalem, and breach with the Pharisees, we have on the
   reverse the device of an anchor with two cross-bars.

   [6356] Jewish tradition, of course, vindicates a much earlier origin
   for the Sanhedrin, and assumes its existence not only in the time of
   Moses, David, and Solomon, but even in that of Mordecai! (Comp.
   Buxtorf, Lex. Chald. Talmud col. 1514.)

   [6357] In quoting this passage, Derenbourg (u. s. p 111) and Schürer
   leave out these words. [They are ommitted in the corresponding account
   of this story in Vayy. R. 35, ed. Warsh. p. 54 a; in Siphré, ed.
   Friedmann, p. 80 a; also in Siphra, ed. Weiss, p. 110 d, where the
   whole connected is very much as in Vavy. R.] Yet the words are, in one
   sense, most significant, since these fertilising rains, descending on
   these two nights when it was specially forbidden to go out, since on
   them innumerable demons haunted on the air (Pes. 112 b, line 10 from
   the bottom), indicated an exceptional blessing. The reason why these
   two nights are singled out as dangerous is, that Chanina b. Dosa, of
   whom Rabbinic tradition has so many miracles to relate, conceded them
   to the hurtful sway of Agrath bath Machlath and her 18 myriads of
   Angels. See App. xiii. In view of this, M. Derenbourg's explanatory
   note would seem to require to be modified. But, in general, rain even
   on the night before the Sabbath was regarded as a curse (Vayy. R. 35),
   and it has been ingeniously suggested that the {hebrew} in the Midrash
   must be taken in the sense in which that word is explained in Taan. 6
   a, viz. as the ordinary time of rain. Why the night before Wednesday
   and Friday night are represented as left in the power of hurtful demons
   might open an interesting field for speculation.

   [6358] This notice is followed by the somewhat blasphemous story of the
   achievements of Choni (Onias) hammeaggel, to which reference will be
   made in the sequel.

   [6359] Chammumoth.

   [6360] Comp. also Sanh. 46 a.

   [6361] Comp. Derenbourg, pp. 108, 109.

   [6362] According to some (Ant. xiv. 1. 3), he was of noble Jewish,
   according to others, or heathen and slave descent. The truth lies
   probably between these extremes.

   [6363] It almost seems as if this repugnant story were a sort of Jewish
   Imitation of the circle which Popilius Lænas drew around Antiochus
   Epiphanes, bidding him decide, ere he left it, whether or not he would
   comply with the demand of the Romans.

   [6364] Both Josephus and the Talmud (Sotah 49 b) give an account,
   though in different version, of the manner in which the besieged sought
   a supply of sacrifices from the besiegers.

   [6365] According to Josephus, it was on the Day of Atonement; according
   to Dio Cassius, apparently on a Sabbath. Comp. the remarks of
   Derenbourg on these conflicting statements (u. s. p. 117, note).

   [6366] The captives then brought to Rome and sold as slaves became the
   nucleus of the Jewish community in the imperial city.

   [6367] Comp. the masterly survey of the state of matters in Syria and
   Judæa in Marquardt, Handb. d. Rom. Alterth., vol. iv. pp. 247-260.

   [6368] Comp. Geiger, Urschrift, p. 204; Derenbourg, p. 119, note.

   [6369] Comp. Geiger, u. s. p. 205, Note, Hamburger, u. s. p. 367.
   Various strange and most unsatisfactory explanations have been proposed
   of these mysterious words, which yet, on consideration, seem so easy of
   understanding. Comp. the curious explanations of Grimm, Ewald, and
   others, in Grimm's Exeget. hand. zu d. Apokryphen, 3te Lief. p. xvii.
   Derenbourg (Hist. de la Palest. pp. 450-452) regards sarbd as a
   corruption for sapharbd, and would render the whole by Book of the
   family of the Chief ({hebrew}) of the people of God.'
     __________________________________________________________________

APPENDIX V.

   RABBINIC THEOLOGY AND LITERATURE

   (Vol. i. Book I. ch. viii.)

   1. The Traditional Law. - The brief account given in vol. i. p. 100, of
   the character and authority claimed for the traditional law may here be
   supplemented by a chronological arrangement of the Halakhoth in the
   order of their supposed introduction or promulgation.

   In the first class, or Halakhoth of Moses from Sinai,' tradition
   enumerates fifty-five, [6370] which may be thus designated:
   religio-agrarian, four; [6371] ritual, including questions about clean
   and unclean,' twenty-three; [6372] concerning women and intercourse
   between the sexes, three; [6373] concerning formalities to be observed
   in the copying, fastening, &c., of the Law and the phylacteries,
   eighteen; [6374] exegetical, four; [6375] purely superstitious, one;
   [6376] not otherwise included, two. [6377] Eighteen ordinances are
   ascribed to Joshua, of which only one is ritual, the other seventeen
   being agrarian and police regulations. [6378] The other traditions can
   only be briefly noted. Boaz, or else the tribunal of Samuel,' fixed,
   that Deut. xxiii. 3 did not apply to alliances with Ammonite and
   Moabite women. Two ordinances are ascribed to David, two to Solomon,
   one to Jehoshaphat, and one to Jehoida. The period of Isaiah and of
   Hezekiah is described as of immense Rabbinic activity. To the prophets
   at Jerusalem three ritual ordinances are ascribed. Daniel is
   represented as having prohibited the bread, wine and oil of the heathen
   (Dan. i. 5). Two ritual determinations are ascribed to the prophets of
   the Exile.

   After the return from Babylon traditionalism rapidly expanded, and its
   peculiar character more and more clearly developed. No fewer than
   twelve traditions are traced back to the three prophets who flourished
   at that period, while four other important legal determinations are
   attributed to the prophet Haggai individually. It will readily be
   understood that Ezra occupied a high place in tradition. Fifteen
   ordinances are ascribed to him, of which some are titual. Three of his
   supposed ordinances have a general interest. They enjoin the general
   education of children, and the exclusion of Samaritans from admission
   into the Synagogue and from social intercourse. If only one legal
   determination is assigned to Nehemiah, the men of the great Synagogue'
   are credited with fifteen, of which six bear on important critical and
   exegetical points connected with the text of the Scriptures, the others
   chiefly on questions connected with ritual and worship. Among the
   pairs' (Zugoth) which succeeded the Great Synagogue,' three
   alleviating' ordinances (of a very punctilious character) are ascribed
   to Jose, the son of Joezer, [6379] and two, intended render all contact
   with heathens impossible, to him and his colleague. Under the Maccabees
   the feast of the dedication of the Temple was introduced. To Joshua the
   son of Perachya, one punctilious legal determination is ascribed. Of
   the decrees of the Maccabean High-Priest Jochanan we have already
   spoken in another place; similarly, of those of Simon the son of
   Shetach and of his learned colleague. Four legal determinations of
   their successors Shemayah and Abhtalion are mentioned. Next in order
   comes the prohibition of Greek during the war between the Maccabean
   brothers Hyrcanus and Aristobulus. This brings us to the time of Hillel
   and Shammai, that is, to the period of Jesus, to which further
   reference will have to be made in another place.

   2. The Canon of Scripture. - Reference has been made in the text (vol.
   i. p. 107) to the position taken by Traditionalism in reference to the
   written as compared with what was regarded as the oral Revelation.
   Still, nominally, the Scriptures were appealed to by the Palestinians
   as of supreme authority. The views which Josephus expresses in this
   respect, although in a popular and Grecianised form, were substantially
   those entertained by the Rabbis and by his countrymen generally (comp.
   Ag. Apion, i. 7, 8). [6380] A sharp distinction was made between
   canonical and non-canonical books. The test of the former was
   inspiration, which had ceased in the time of Artaxerxes, that is, with
   the prophet Malachi. Accordingly, the work of the elder Jesus the son
   of Sirach (Jeshua ben Sira, ben Eliezer) was excluded from the Canon,
   although it is not unfrequently referred to by Rabbinic authorities in
   terms with which ordinarily only Biblical quotations are introduced.
   [6381] According to the view propounded by Josephus, not only were the
   very words inspired in which a prediction was uttered, but the prophets
   were unconscious and passive vehicles of the Divine message (Ant. iv.
   6. 5, comp generally, Ant ii. 8. 1; vi. 8, 2; viii. 13, 3; ix. 3, 2, 8,
   6; x. 2, 2; 4, 3). Although pre-eminence in this respect was assigned
   to Moses (Ant. iv. 8, 49), yet Divine authority equally attached to the
   sayings of the prophets, and even, though perhaps in a still inferior
   degree, to the Hymns,' as the Hagiographa generally were called from
   the circumstance that the Psalter stood at the head of them (comp.
   Philo, De Vita contempl., ed. Mangey, voi. ii. p. 475; St. Luke xxiv.
   44). Thus the division of the Bible into three sections - the Law, the
   Prophets, and the other Writings' - which already occurs in the
   prologue to the work of Jesus the son of Sirach, [6382] seems to have
   been current at the time. And here it is of great interest, in
   connection with modern controversies, that Josephus seems to attach
   special importance to the prophecies of Daniel as still awaiting
   fulfilment (Ant. x 10. 4; 11. 7).

   That the Rabbis entertained the same views of inspiration, appears not
   only from the distinctive name of Holy Writings' given to the
   Scriptures, but also from the directions that their touch defiled the
   hands, [6383] and that it was duty on the Sabbath to save them from
   conflagration, and to gather them up if accidentally scattered, and
   that it was not lawful for heirs to make division of a sacred roll
   (Comp. Shabb. xvi. 1; Erub. x. 3; Kel. xv. 6; Yad. iii. 2-5; iv. 5
   [where special reference is made to Daniel 6]). From what we know of
   the state of feeling, we might have inferred, even if direct evidence
   had not existed that a distinctive and superior place would be ascribed
   to the Books of Moses. In point of fact, the other books of Scripture,
   alike the Prophets and the Hagiographa, [6384] are only designated as
   Qabbalah (received,' handed down, tradition), which is also the name
   given to oral tradition. [6385] It was said that the Torah was given to
   Moses (Jer. Sheq. vi. 1) in (letters of) white fire graven upon black
   fire,' although it was matter of despute whether he received it volume
   by volume or complete as a whole (Gitt. 60 a). But on the question of
   its inspiration not the smallest doubt could be tolerated. Thus, to
   admit generally, that the Torah as a whole was from heaven, except this
   (one) verse, which the Holy One, blessed be He, did not speak, but
   Moses of himself' was to become an infidel and a blasphemer (Sanh. 99
   a). [6386] Even the concluding verses in Deuteronomy had been dictated
   by God to Moses, and he wrote them down - not repeating them, however,
   as before, but weeping as he wrote. It will readily be understood in
   what extravagant terms Moses himself was spoken of. It is not only that
   the expression man of God' was supposed to imply, that while as
   regarded the lower part of his nature Moses was man, as regarded the
   higher he was Divine, but that his glorification and exaltation amount
   to blasphemy. [6387] So far as inspiration or revelation' is concerned,
   it was said that Moses saw in a clear glass, the prophets in a dark
   one' - or, to put it otherwise: he saw through one glass, they through
   seven.' Indeed, although the opening words of Ps. lxxv. showed, that
   the Psalms were as much revelation as the Law, yet, if Israel had not
   sinned, they would have only received the Pentateuch, and the Book of
   Joshua,' and, in the time to come, of all Scripture the Pentateuch
   alone would retain its place. It was somewhat contemptuously remarked,
   that the Prophets uttered nothing as regarded practice that had not
   already been told in the Pentateuch (Taan. 9 a). It was but natural for
   Rabbinism to declare that the Law alone fully explained its meaning (at
   least according to their interpretation of it), while the Prophets left
   much in obscurity. [6388] To mark the distinction, it was forbidden to
   put the Law in the same wrapper with the Prophets, so as not to place
   perhaps the latter on the top of the former (Tos. Meg. iv. 20). Among
   the Prophets themselves there was a considerable difference, not only
   in style and training but even in substance (Sanh. 89 a), although all
   of them had certain common qualifications (comp. Ab. de R. Nathan, 37).
   Of all the prophets Isaiah was greatest, and stood next to Moses.
   Ezekiel saw all that Isaiah saw - but the former was like a villager,
   the latter like a townsman who saw the king (Chag. 13 b). Jeremiah and
   Amos were, so to speak, scolding, owing to the violence of their
   temperament, while Isaiah's was the book of consolation, especially in
   response to Jeremiah.

   The Hagiographa or Kethubhim' also bear in the Talmud the general
   designation of Chokhmah,' wisdom. It has been asserted that, as the
   Prophetic Books, so the Hagiographa, were distinguished into anterior'
   (Psalms, Proverbs, Job) and posterior,' or else into great' and small.'
   But the statement rests on quite insufficient evidence. [6389] Certain,
   however, it is , that the Hagiographa, as we possess them, formed part
   of the Canon in the time of Jesus the son of Sirach - that is, even of
   the latest computation of his authorship, [6390] about the year 130
   b.c. [6391] Even so, it would not be easy to vindicate, on historical
   grounds, the so-called Maccabean authorship of the Book of Daniel,
   which would fix its date about 105 b.c. For, if other considerations
   did not interfere, few students of Jewish history would be disposed to
   assert that a book, which dated from 104 b.c., could have found a place
   in the Jewish Canon. [6392] But, as explained in vol. i. p. 26, we
   would assign a much earlier date to the Book of Sirach. The whole
   question in its bearing on the New Testament is so important, that one
   or two further remarks may be allowed. Leaving aside most serious
   critical objections, and the unquestionable fact, that no amount of
   ingenuity can conciliate the Maccabean application of Dan. ix. 24-27
   with the chronology of that period, [6393] while the Messianic
   interpretation fits in with it, [6394] other, and seemingly insuperable
   difficulties are in the way of the theory impugned. It implies, that
   the Book of Daniel was not an Appocryphal, but a Pseudepigraphic work;
   that of all such works it alone has come down to us in its Hebrew or
   Chaldee original; that a Pseudepigraphic work, nearly contemporary with
   the oldest portion of the Book of Enoch, should not only be so
   different from it, but that it should find admission into the Canon,
   while Enoch was excluded; that a Pseudepigraphon younger that Jesus the
   Son of Sirach should have been on the Khethubhim; and, finally, that it
   should have passed the repeated revision of different Rabbinic
   Colleges' - and that at times of considerable theological activity -
   without the suspicion being even raised that its authorship dated
   fromso late a period as a century an a half before Christ. And we have
   evidence that since the Babylonish exile, at least four revisions of
   the Canon took place within periods sufficiently distant from each
   other.

   The question hitherto treated has been exclusively of the date of the
   composition of the Book of Daniel, without reference to who may have
   been its author, whether its present is exactly the same as its
   original form, and finally, whether it ever belonged to those books
   whose right to canonicity, though nor their age, was in controversy,
   that is, whether it belonged, so to speak, to the Old Testament
   ntilegmena. As this is not the place for a detailed discussion of the
   canonicity of the Book of Daniel - or, indeed, of any other in the Old
   Testament canon - we shall only add, to prevent misunderstanding, that
   no opinion is here expressed as to possible, greater or less,
   interpolations on the Book of Daniel, or in any other part of the Old
   Testament. We must here bear in mind that the moral view taken of such
   interpolations, as we would call them, was entirely different in those
   times from ours; and it may perhaps be an historically and critically
   no unwarranted proposition, that such interpolations were, to speak
   moderately, not all unusual in ancient documents. In each case the
   question must be separately critically examined in the light of
   internal and (if possible) external evidence. But it would be a very
   different thing to suggest that there may be an interpolation, or, it
   may be, a re-arrangement in a document (although at present we make no
   assertions on the subject, one way or the other), and to pronounce a
   whole document a fabrication dating from a much later period. The one
   would, at any rate, be quite in the spirit of those times; the other
   implies, beside insuperable critical difficulties, a deliberate
   religious fraud, to which no unprejudiced student could seriously
   regard the so-called Pseudepigrapha as forming any real analogon.

   But as regards the Book of Daniel, it is an important fact that the
   right of the Book of Daniel to canonicity was never called in question
   in the ancient Synagogue. The fact that it was distinguish as visions'
   (Chezyonoth) from the other prophecies' has, of course, no bearing on
   the question, any more than the circumstance that later Rabbinism,
   which, naturally enough, could not find its way through the Messianic
   prophecies of the book, declare that even Daniel was mistaken in, and
   could not make anything of the predictions concerning the latter days'
   (Ber. R. 98). [6395] On the other hand, Daniel was elevated to almost
   the same pinnacle as Moses, while it was said that, as compared with
   heathen sages, if they were all placed in one scale, and Daniel in the
   other, he would outweigh them all. We can readily understand that, in
   times of national sorrow or excitement, these prophecies would be
   eagerly resorted to, as pointing to a glorious future.

   But although the Book of Daniel was not among the Antilegomena, doubts
   were raised, not indeed about the age, but about the right to
   canonicity of certain other portions of the Bible. Thus, certain
   expressions in the prophecies of Ezekiel were questioned as apparently
   incompatible with statements in the Pentateuch [6396] (Men. 45 a), and
   although a celebrated Rabbi, Chananyah, the son of Chizkuyah, the son
   of Garon (about the time of Christ), with immense labour, sought to
   conncilate them, and thus preserved the Book of Ezekiel (or, at least,
   part of it) from being relegated among the Appocrypha, it was deemed
   safest to leave the final exposition of the meaning of Ezekiel, till
   Elijah come,' as the restorer of all things.

   The other objections to canonicity apply exculsively to the third
   division of the Old Testament, the Kethubhim or Hagiorgrapha. Here even
   the Book of Proverbs seems at one time to have been called in question
   (Ab. R. Nathan 1), partly on the ground of its secular contents, and
   partly as containing supposed contradictory statements' [6397] (Shabb.
   30 b). Very strong doubts were raised on the Book of Ecclesiastes (Yad.
   iii. 5; Eduy. v. 3), first, on that ground of its contradiction to some
   of the Psalms [6398] (Shabb. 30 a); secondly, on that of its
   inconsistencies [6399] (Shabb. 30 b); and thirdly, because ot seemed to
   countenance the denial of another life, and, as in Eccl. xi 1, 3, 9,
   other heretical views (Vayyikra R. 28, at the beginning). [6400] But
   these objections were finally answered by great ingenuity, while an
   appeal to Eccl. xii. 12, 13, was regarded as removing the difficulty
   about another life and future rewards and punishments. And as the
   contradictions in Ecclesiastes had been conciliated, it hopefully
   argued deeper study would equally remove those in the Book of Proverbs
   (Shabb. 30 b). [6401] Still, the controversy about the canonicity of
   Ecclesiastes continue so late as the second century of our era (comp.
   Yad. iii. 5). That grave doubts also existed about the Song of Solomon,
   appears even from the terms in which its canonicity is insisted upon
   (Yad. u. s.), not to speak of express statements in opposition to it
   (Ab. de. R. Nathan 1). Even when by an allegorical interpretation it
   was shown to be the wisdom of all wisdom,' the most precious gem, the
   holy of holies, tradition still ascribed its composition to to the
   early years of Solomon (Shir haSh. R. 1). It had been his first work,
   and was followed by Proverbs, and finally by Ecclesiastes. [6402] But
   perhaps the greatest objections were those taken to the Book of Esther
   (Meg. 7 a). It excited the enmity of other nations against Israel, and
   it was outside the canon. Grave doubts prevailed whether it was
   canonical or inspired by the Holy Spirit (Meg. u. s.; Yoma 29 a). The
   books of Ezra and Nehemiah were anciently regarded as one - the name of
   the latter author being kept back on account of his tendency to
   self-exaltation (Sanh. 93 b). Lastly, the genealogical parts of the
   Book of Chronicles were made the subject of very elaborate secret
   commentation (Pes. 62 b).

   Two points still require brief mention. Even from a comparison of the
   LXX. Version with our Hebrew text, it is evident that there were not
   only many variations, but that spurious additions (as Daniel) were
   eliminated. This critical activity, which commenced with Ezra, whose
   copy of the Pentateuch was, according to tradition, placed in the
   Temple, that the people might correct their copies by it, must have
   continued for many centuries. [6403] There is abundant evidence of
   frequent divergences - though perhaps minute - and although later
   Rabbinsim laid down the most painfully minute directions about the mode
   of writing and copying the rolls of the Law, there is such discrepancy,
   even where least it might be expected, [6404] as to show that the
   purification of the text was by no means settled. Considering the want
   of exegetical knowledge and historical conscientiousness, and keeping
   in view how often the Rabbis, for Haggadic puroposes, alter letters,
   and thus change the meaning of words, we may well doubt the
   satisfactory character of their critical labours. Lastly, as certain
   omissions were made, and as the Canon underwent (as will be shown)
   repeated revision, it may have been certain portions were added as well
   as left out, and words changed as well as restored.

   For, ancient tradition ascribes a peculiar activity to certain
   Colleges' - as they are termed - in regard to the Canon. In general,
   the well-known Baraita (Baba B. 14 b, 15 a) bears, that Moses wrote the
   Pentateuch, the book (Prophecies?) of Balaam, and Job; Joshua the work
   that bears his name, and the last eight verses of Deuteronomy; [6405]
   Samuel the corresponding books, Judges and Ruth; David with the ten
   Elders,' Adam, Melchisedek, Abraham, Moses, Heman, Jeduthun, Asaph, and
   the three sons of Korah, the Psalter; Jeremiah wrote his prophecies,
   Lamentations, and Kings; King Hezekiah and his Sanhedrin compiled, or
   edited, the Prophecies of Isaiah, Proverbs, the Song, and Ecclesiastes;
   and the men of the Great Synagogue' the Prophecies of Ezekiel, of the
   twelve Minor Prophets, and the books of Daniel and Esther; Ezra wrote
   his own book and Chronicles, the work being completed by Nehemiah, the
   son of Chakaliah. The last verse of Joshua were written by Eleazar and
   Phinehas; the last chapters of Samuel by Gad and Nathan. [6406]

   Loose and uncritical as these statements may appear, they so far help
   our investigations as to show that, according to tradition, certain
   portions of Scripture were compiled or edited by one or another
   Rabbinic College,' and that there were several Colleges' which
   successively busied themselves with the codification and revision of
   the Canon. By these Colleges,' we are not to understand gatherings of
   certain members, who discussed and decided a question at one or more of
   their meetings. They rather indicate the learned activity of the
   authorities during a certain period, which are respectively designed by
   the generic names of the Sanhedrin of Hezekiah,' The men of the
   Synagogue,' the Legal Court of the Maccabees,' and finally, Chananayah
   and his College,' We have thus somewhat firmer historical ground. If in
   Prov. xxv. 1, we read of the activity about the Canon of the Men of
   Hezekiah,' and bear in mind the Scriptural account of the religious
   revival of that reign (for ex. 2 Chron. xxix. 25-30; 2 Chron. xxx. 1),
   we scarely required the frequent and elaborate glorification of
   tradition to lead us to infer that, if the collection of the Book of
   Proverbs was due to their activity, they must have equally collated the
   other portions of Scripture then existing, and fixed the Canon as their
   time. Again, if we are to credit the statement that they equally
   collected and edited the Prophecies of Isaiah, we are obliged to infer
   that the continuance of that College was not limited to the life of
   Hazekiah, since the latter died before Isaiah (Tos. Baba Bathra; Yeb.
   49 b).

   What has just been indicated is fully confirmated by what we know of
   the activity of Ezra (Ezra vii. 6, 10), and of his successors in the
   great Synagogue. If we are to attach credit to the notice in 2 Macc.
   ii. 13, [6407] it points to such literary activity as tradition
   indicates. That the revision and determination of the Canon must have
   been among the main occupations of Ezra and his successors of the Great
   Synagogue' - whatever precise meaning may be attached to that
   institution - seems scarcely to requre proof. The same remark applies
   to another period of religious reformation, that of the so-called
   Asmonæan College. Even if we had not the evidence of their exclusion of
   such works as those of Ben Sirach and others, there could be no
   rational doubt that in their time the Canon, as presently existing, was
   firmly fixed, and that no work of comparatively late date could have
   found admission into it. The period of their activity is sufficiently
   known, and too near what may be called the historical times of
   Rabbinism, for any attempt in that direction, without leaving traces of
   it. Lastly, we come to the indications of a critical revision of the
   text by Chananyah and his College,' [6408] shortly before the time of
   our Lord. Thus we have, in all, a record of four critical revisions of
   the Canon up to time of Christ.

   3. Any attempt to set forth in this place a detailed exposition of the
   Exegetical Canon of the Rabbis, or of their application, would
   manifestly be impossible. It would require almost a treatise of its
   own; and a cursory survey would neither be satisfactory to the writer
   nor instructive to the general reader. Besides, on all subjects
   connected with Rabbinic exagesis, a sufficient number of learned
   treatises exists, which are easily accessible to students, while the
   general reader can only be interested in such general results as have
   been frequently indicated throughout these volumes. Lastly, the
   treatment of certain branches of the subject, such as a criticism of
   the Targumim, really belongs to what is known as the science of
   Introduction,' either to the Old Testament, in manuals of which, as
   well as in special treaties, all such subjects are fully discussed.
   Besides these the student may be referred, for a general summary, to
   the labours of Dr. Hamburger (Real-Encycl.). Special works on various
   branches of the subject cannot here be named, since this would involve
   an analysis and critical disquisition. But for aknowledge of the
   Rabbinic statements in regard to the Codices and the text of the Old
   Testement, reference may here be made to the short but masterly
   analysis of Professor Strack (Prolegomena Critica), in which, first,
   the various codices of the Old Testament, and then the text as existing
   in Talmudical times, are discussed, and the literature of the subject
   fully and cirtically given. The various passage are also mentioned in
   which the Biblical quotations in the Mishanah and Gemara differ from
   our present text. [6409] Most of them are, however, of no exegetical
   importance. On the exegesis of the Rabbis generally, I would take leave
   to refer to sketch of it given in the History of the Jewish Nation,'
   ch. xi., and especially in App. V., on Rabbinical Exegesis,' where all
   its canons are enumerated. Some brief notices connected with Rabbinic
   Commentaries quoted in this work will be found at the beginning of vol.
   i.

   4 Somewhat similar observations must be made in regard to the mystical
   Theology of the Synagogue, or the so-called Kabbalah. Its commencement
   must certainly be traced to, and before, the times described in these
   volumes. For a discussion of its origin and doctrines I must once more
   take leave to refer to the account given in the History of the Jewish
   Nation' (pp. 435, &c.). The whole modern literature of the subject,
   besides much illustrative matter, is given in the Italian text annexed
   to David Castelli's edition of Sabbatai Donnolo's Hebrew Commentary on
   the Book Yetsirah, or the Book of Creation. For, the Kabbalah busies
   itself with these two subjects: the History of the Creation (Yetsirah,
   perhaps rather formation' than Creation), and the Merkabhah,' or the
   Divine apparition as described by Ezekiel. Both refer to the great
   question, underlying all theosophic speculation: that of God's
   connection with His creature. They treat of the mystery of Nature and
   of Providence, with especial bearing on Revelation; and the question,
   how the Infinite God can have any connection or intercourse with finite
   creatures, is attempted to be answered. Of the two points raised, that
   of Creation is of course the first in the order of thinking as well as
   of time - and the book Yetsirah is the oldest Kabbalistic document.

   The Sepher Yetsirah is properly a monologue on the part of Abraham, in
   which, by the contemplation of all that is around him, he ultimately
   arrives at the conviction of the Unity of God.

   We distinguish the substance and the fom of creation; that which is,
   and the mode in which it is. We have already indicated that the
   original of all that exists is Divine. 1st, We have God; 2nd, God
   manifest, or the Divine entering into form; 3rd, That Divine in its
   form, from which in turn all original realities are afterwards derived.
   In the Sepher Yetsirah, these Divine realities (the substance) are
   represented by the ten numerals, and their form by the twenty-two
   letters which constitute the Hebrew alphabet - language being viewed as
   the medium of connection between the spiritual and the material; as the
   form in which the spiritual appears. At the same time, number and
   language indicate also the arrangement and the mode of creation, and,
   in general, its boundaries. "By thirty-two wounderful paths," so begins
   the Sepher Yetsirah, "the Eternal, the Lord of Hosts, the God of
   Israel, the Living God, the King of the World, the merciful and
   gracious God, the glorious One, He that inhabiteth eternity, Whose Name
   is high and holy, has created the world." But these ten numerals are in
   reality the ten Sephiroth, or Divine emanations, arranged in triads,
   each tirad consisting of two opposites (flowing or emanating from a
   superior triad until the Divine Unity is reached), and being reconciled
   in a middle point of connection. These ten Sephiroth, in the above
   arrangement, recur everywhere, and the sacred number ten is that of
   prefection. Each of these Sephiroth flows from its predecessor, and in
   this manner the Divine gradually evolves. This emanation of the ten
   Sephiroth then constitutes the substance of word; we may add, it
   constitutes everything else. In God, in the world, in man, everywhere
   we meet these ten Sephiroth, at the head of which is God manifest, or
   the Memra (Logos, the Word). If the ten Sephiroth give the Substance,
   the twenty-two letters are the form of creation and of revelation. "By
   giving them form and shape,. and by interchanging them, God has made
   the soul ofeverything that has been made, or shall be made." "Upon
   those letters, also, has the Holy One, Whose Name be praised, founded
   His holy and glorious Name." These letters are next subdivided, and
   their application in all the departments of nature is shown. In the
   unit creation, the triad; world, time and man are found. Above all
   these is the Lord. Such is a very brief outline of the rational
   exposition of theCreation, attempted by the Sepher Yetsirah.' [6410]

   We subjoin a translation of the book Yetsirah, only adding that much,
   not only as regards the meaning of the expressions but even their
   translation, is in controversy. Hence, not unfrequently, our rendering
   must be regarded rather as our interpertation of the mysterious
   original.

   THE BOOK YETSIRAH

   Pereq. I.

   Mishnah 1. In thirty-two wonderful paths of wisdom, Jah, Jehovah
   Tsebhaoth, the God of Israel, the Living God, and King of the World,
   God merciful and gracious, High and Exalted, Who dwelleth to Eternity,
   high and holy is His Name, hath ordered [established, created?] (the
   world) by three Sepharim [books]: by Sepher [the written Word], Sephar
   [number, numeral] and Sippur [spoken word]. Others, pointing the worlds
   differently, render these mysterious terms: Number, Word, Writing;
   others Number, Numberer, Numbered; while still other see in it a
   reference to the threefold division of the letters of the Hebrew
   alphabet, of which more afterwards.

   Mishnah 2. Ten Sephiroth [emanations] belimah [6411] [without anything,
   i.e. before these, the sole elements out of which all else evolved],
   twenty-two letters of foundation (these constitute the Hebrew Alphabet,
   and the meaning seems that the Sephiroth manifest themselves in that
   which is uttered): three mothers (Aleph, the first letter of Avveyr,
   air; Mem, the first letter of Mayim, water; and Shin, the last letter
   of Esh, fire - although this may represent only one mystical aspect of
   themeaning of the term mothers,' as applied to these letters), seven
   duplex [6412] (Prounced soft' or hard,' viz. Beth, Gimel, Daleth, Kaph,
   Pe, Resh, Tau, which are, or where in Hebrew capable of modification by
   a Dagesh - but this also must be mystically understood) and twelve
   simple ones [6413] (the simple letters of the Hebrew Alphabet).

   Mishnah 3. Ten Sephiorth belimah (the analogy is now further traced in
   God and in man), the number of the ten fingers, five against five, and
   the covenant of the One Only (God) placed between them (the coventant
   relationship between God and man in the midst, even as it is symbolised
   in the person of man which is between the twice five fingers) by the
   word of the tongue (this, the relation Godward) and by the word of
   sexualness [nuditas] (the relation earthwards - the one has become
   dual.)

   Mishnah 4. Ten Sephiroth belimah - ten and not nine, ten and not eleven
   - be informed in wisdom, and be wise in information; examine in them,
   search out from them, and put the thing in its reality (certitude,
   proper state?), and place again the Creator in His place.

   Mishnah 5. Ten Sephiroth belimah - their measurement ten, which have no
   end (limitation): depth of beginning (past) and depth of ending
   (future), depth of good and depth of evil, depth of height and depth of
   profundity (or, above and beneath), depth of east and depth of west,
   depth of north and depth of south - One only Lord, God, the true
   (approved) King, Who reigneth over all from His holy dwelling and unto
   all eternity.

   Mishnah 6. Ten Sephiroth belimah - their appearance like the sheen of
   lightning (reference here to Ezek. i. 14), and their outgoings (goal)
   that they have no end, His word is in them (the Logos manifest in the
   Sephiroth), in running and in returning, and at His word like
   storm-wind they pursue (follow), and before His throne they bend (in
   worship).

   Mishnah 7. Ten Sephiroth belimah - their end is joined to their
   beginning, like the flame that is bound up with the coal, for the Lord
   is One only, and there is no second to Him, and before him what
   countest thou?

   Mishnah 8. Ten Sephiroth belimah - shut thy mouth, that is speak not,
   and thy heart, that it think not, and if thy heart run away, bring it
   back to its place, for on this account is it said (Ezek. i. 14) they
   run and return,' and on this condition has the Covenant been made.

   Mishnah 9 and 10. Ten Sephiroth belimah - One: the Spirit of the living
   God, blessed and again blessed be the Name of Him Who liveth for ever -
   Voice and Spirit and Word, and this is the Holy Ghost.

   Two: Wind (air, spirit?) from (out of) Spirit - thereby ordered and
   hewed He the twenty-two letters of foundation, three mothers, and 7
   duplicate, and 12 simple ones, and one Spirit from (among) them. Three:
   Water from beneath (wind), He designed and hewed in them tohu vavohu,
   slime and dung - designed them like a bed (a garden bed), hewed them
   like a wall, covered them like pavement. Four: Fire from water, He
   designed it and hewed in it the throne of glory, the Ophanim and
   Seraphim, the sacred living creatures, and the angels of service, and
   of these three He founded His dwelling place, as it is said, He maketh
   His angels breaths (winds), and His ministers a flaming fire.

   Mishnah 11. Five: Three letters from out the simple ones: He sealed
   spirit on the three, and fastened them in His Great Name {hebrew}
   (Jehovah, of which these three letters are the abbreviation; what
   follows shows how the permutation of these three letters makes the
   varied relationship of God to creation in time and space, and at the
   same time, so to speak, the immance of His manifestation in it). And He
   sealed with them six outgoings (ends, terminations): He turned upwards,
   and He sealed it with {hebrew}. Six: He sealed below, turned downwards,
   and sealed it with {hebrew}. Seven: He sealed eastward, He turned in
   front of Him, and sealed it with {hebrew}. Eight: He sealed westward,
   and turned behind, and sealed it with {hebrew}. Nine: He sealed
   southward, and turned to His right, and sealed it with {hebrew}. Ten:
   He sealed northward, and turned to His left, and sealed it with
   {hebrew}.

   Mishnah 12. These are the Sephiroth belimah - one: Spirit of the living
   God, and wind (air, spirit? the word ruach means all these), water, and
   fire; and height above and below, east and west, north and south.

   Pereq II.

   Mishnah 1. Twenty-and-two letters of foundation: three mothers, seven
   duplex, and twelve simple ones - three mothers {hebrew}, their
   foundation the scale of merit and the scale of guilt, and the tongue of
   statute trembling (deciding) between them. (This, to be mystically
   carried out, in its development, and application to all things: the
   elements, man, &c.)

   Mishnah 2. Twenty-two letters of foundation: He drew them, hewed them,
   weighed them, and interchanged them, melted them together (showing how
   in the permutation of letters all words - viewed mystically as the
   designation of things - arose), He formed by them the nephesh of all
   that is formed (created), and the nephesh of everything that is to be
   formed (created).

   Mishnah 3. Two-and-twenty letters of foundation: drawn in the voice,
   hewn in the wind (air, spirit?) fastened on the mouth in five places:
   {hebrew} (the gutturals among the Hebrew letters), {hebrew} (the
   labials), {hebrew} (the palatals),{hebrew} (the linguals), {hebrew}
   (the dentals).

   Mishnah 4. Twenty-two letters of foundation, fastened in a circle in
   231 gates (marking how these letters are capbale of forming, by the
   permutation of two of them, in all 231 permutations); and the circle
   turns forwards and backwards, and this is the indication of the matter:
   as regards what is good, there is nothing higher than {hebrew} (oneg),
   delight,' and nothing lower than {hebrew} (negah), plague' (stroke). In
   such manner He weighed them and combined them, with them all, and them
   all with {hebrew} with them all, and them all with {hebrew}, and thus
   the rest, so that it is found that all that is formed and all that is
   spoken proceeds from one Name (the name of God being, as it were, the
   fundamental origin of everything).

   Mishnah 5. He formed from Tohu that which has substance, and made that
   which is not into being, and hewed great pillars from the air, which
   cannot be handled; and this is the indication: beholding and speaking
   He made all that is formed and all words by one Name - and the
   indication of the matter: twenty-two numbers and one body.

   Pereq III.

   Mishnah 1. Three mothers - {hebrew}: their foundation, the scale of
   guilt and the scale of merit, and the tongue of the statue trembling
   (deciding) between them.

   Mishnah 2. Three mothers - {hebrew} - a great mystery, marvellous and
   hidden, and sealed with six signets, and from them go forth fire and
   water, and divide themselves into male and female. Three mothers,
   {hebrew} their foundation, and from them were born the fathers (rerum
   naturæ semina), from which everything is created (fire is regarded as
   the male principle, water as the female principle, and air as combining
   the two: {hebrew} is the first letter of the Hebrew word for air,
   {hebrew} for that of water, {hebrew} the last for that of fire).

   Mishnah 3. Three letters, {hebrew} - in the world: air, water, fire;
   the heavens were created in the beginning from fire, and the earth was
   created from water, and the air trembles (the same word as that in
   regard to the tongue between the scales of the balance, indicating the
   intermediate, inclining to the one or the other) between the fire and
   the water.

   Mishnah 4. Three mothers, {hebrew} - in the year: fire, and water, and
   wind. Heat is created from fire, cold from water, and moderate from the
   wind (air) that is intermediate between them. Three mothers, {hebrew} -
   in the nephesh: fire, water, and wind. The head was created from fire,
   and the belly from water, and the body from wind that is intermediate
   between them.

   Mishnah 5. Three mothers, {hebrew} - He drew them, and hewed them, and
   melted them together, and sealed with them the three mothers in the
   world, the three mothers in the year, and three mothers in the nephesh
   - male and female.

   (Now follows a further mystical development and application.) The
   letter {hebrew} He made King in the Spirit, and bound upon him the
   crown (this refers to farther mystical signs indicated in the
   Kabbalistic figure drawn on p. 438 of the History of the Jewish
   Nation'), and melted them one with the other, and sealed with them: in
   the world the air, in the soul life, and in the nephesh (living thing)
   body - the male with {hebrew}, the female with {hebrew}. {hebrew} He
   made King in the waters, and bound on it the crown, and melted them one
   with the other, and sealed: in the world earth, and in the year cold,
   and in the nephesh the belly - male and feamle, male in {hebrew}, and
   female in {hebrew}. {hebrew} He made King in the fire, and bound on it
   the crown, and melted them one with the other, and sealed with it: in
   the upper world the heavens, in the year heat, in the nephesh the head
   - male and female.

    Pereq IV.

   Mishnah 1. Seven duplex letters, {hebrew} (it will here be noticed that
   we now proceed from the numeral 3 to the further mystic numeral 7),
   accustomed (habituated, adapted, fitted) for two languages (correlate
   ideas); life, and peace, and wisdom, and riches, grace, and seed, and
   government (the mystic number 7 will here he noted), and accustomed
   (fitted) for two tongues (modes of pronunciation) {hebrew}, - the
   formation of soft and hard, the formation of strong and weak (the dual
   principle will here be observed); duplicate, because they are
   opposites: the opposites - life and death; the opposites - peace and
   evil; the opposites - wisdom and folly; the opposites - riches and
   poverty; the opposites - grace and ugliness; the opposites - fertility
   and desolation; the opposites - rule and servitude.


   Mishnah 2. Seven duplex letters, {hebrew}; corresponding to the seven
   out goings; from them seven outgoings:  above and below, east and west,
   north and south, and the holy Temple in the middle, and it upbears the
   whole.

   Mishnah 3. Seven duplex, {hebrew}; He drew them, and hewed them, and
   melted them, and from them, in the world the stars (the planets), in
   the year the days, in the nephesh the issues, and with them He drew
   seven firmaments, and seven earths, and seven Sabbaths, therefore He
   loves the seventh under all heavens.

   Mishnah 4. Two letters build two houses (here the number of possible
   permutations are indicated). Three letters build six houses, four build
   twenty-four houses, five build 120 houses, six build 720 houses, and
   from thence go onward and think what the mouth is not able to speak,
   and the ear not able to hear. And these are the in the world - seven:
   the Sun, Venus, Mercury, the Moon, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars. And these are
   the days in the year; the seven days of creation; and the seven gates
   of issue in the nephesh: two eyes, two ears, and a mouth, and the two
   nostrils. And with them were drawn the seven above all that is delight
   under the heavens.


    Pereq V.

   Mishnah 1. The properties of the twelve simple letters (or their
   attributes) - {hebrew} - their foundation: sight, hearing, smell,
   speech, eating, concubitus, working, walking, anger, laughter,
   thinking, sleep. Their measurement twelve boundaries in the hypothenuse
   (points in transverse lines), the boundary N. E., the boundary S. E.,
   the boundary E. upwards, the boundary E. downwards; the boundary N.
   upwards, the boundary N. downwards, the boundary S. W., the boundary N.
   W., the boundary W. upwards, the boundary W. downwards, the boundary S.
   upwards, the boundary S. downwards, and they extended and go on into
   the eternal (boundless space), and they are the arms of the world.

   Mishnah 2. Twelve simple letters, {hebrew}. He drew them, and melted
   them, and formed of them the twelve constellations in the world (sign
   of the Zodiac): Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra,
   Scorpio, Sagattarius,Capricornus, Aquarius, Pisces (these are expressed
   in the original in an abbreviated, contracted form). These are the
   twelve months of the year: Nisan, Iyar, Sivan, Tammuz, Abh, Elul,
   Tishri, Marcheshvan, Kislev, Tebheth, Shebhat, Adar (thus the number
   twelve is marked, first in the functions of man, then in the points of
   the compass, then in the starry skies, and then in the year). And these
   are the twelve leaders in nephesh (living beings): two hands, and two
   feet, and two kidneys, the spleen, the liver, the gall, the intestine,
   the upper stomach, the lower stomach (perhaps gullet, stomach, and
   intestine - at any rate, three organs connected with deglutition and
   digestion). He made them like a land (province), and set them in order
   like war, and also - this as against that, ordered God. Three mothers,
   which are three fathers, because from them issue fire, wind, and water.
   Three mothers, and seven duplicate, and twelve simple ones.

   Mishnah 3. These are the twenty-two letters with which the Holy One has
   founded (all), blessed be He, Jah, Jehovah Tsebhaoth, the living God of
   Israel, high and lifted up, dwelling eternally, and holy is His Name,
   exalted and holy is He.

    Pereq VI.

   Mishnah 1. Three fathers and their generations, seven subduers and
   their hosts (planets?), seven boundaries of hypothenuse - and the proof
   of matter: faithful witnesses are the world, the year, and the nephesh.
   The law (statute, settled order) of the twelve, and of the seven, and
   of the three, and they are appointed over the heavenly dragon, and the
   cycle, and the heart. Three: fire, and water, and wind (air); the fire
   above, the water below, and the wind (air) the statute intermediate
   between them. And the demonstration of the matter: the fire bears the
   water, {hebrew} is silent, {hebrew} hisses, and {hebrew} is the statute
   intermediate between them (all these have further mystic meaning and
   application in connection with words and ideas).

   Mishnah 2. The dragon is in the world like a king on his throne; the
   cycle is in the year like a king in his land; the heart is in the
   nephesh like a king in war. Also in all that is pursued God has made
   the one against the other (opposite poles and their reconciliation):
   the good against the evil; good from good, and evil from evil; the good
   trying the evil, and the evil trying the good the good is kept for the
   good, and the evil is kept for the evil.

   Mishnah 3. Three are one, that standeth alone; seven are divided, there
   as against three, and the statute intermediate between them. Twelve are
   in war: three loving, three hating, three giving life, three giving
   death. The three loving ones: the heart, the ears, and the mouth; the
   three hating ones: the liver, the gall, and the tongue - and God a
   faithful king reigning over all: one (is) over three, three over seven,
   seven over twelve, and they are all joined together, the one with the
   other.

   Mishnah 4. And when Abraham our father had beheld, and considered, and
   seen, and drawn, and hewn, and obtained it, then the Lord of all
   revealed Himself to him, and called him His friend, and made a covenant
   with him and with his seed: and he believed in Jehovah, and it was
   imputed to him for righteousness. He made with him a covenant between
   the ten toes, and that is circumcision; between the ten fingers of his
   hand, and that is the tongue; and He bound two-and-twenty letters on
   his tongue, and showed him their foundation. He drew them with water,
   He kindled them with fire, He breathed them with (air); He burnt them
   in seven; He poured them forth in the twelve constellations.

   The views expressed in the Book Yetsirah are repeatedly referred to in
   the Mishnah and in other of the most ancient Jewish writings. They
   represent, as stated at the outset, a direction long anterior to the
   Mishnah, and of which the first beginnings and ultimate principles are
   of deepest interest to the Christian student. The reader who wishes to
   see the application to Christian metaphysics and theology of the
   Kabbalah, of which Yetsirah is but the first word, is referred to a
   deeply interesting and profound work, strangely unknown to English
   scholars: Molitor, Philosophie d. Gesch. oder uber d. Tradition, 4
   vols. English readers will find much to interest them in the now
   somewhat rare work of the Rev. John Oxley: The Christian Doctrine of
   the Trinity and Incarnation (London, 1815, 2 vols.)

   The principles laid down in the Book Yetsirah are further carried out
   and receive their fullest (often most remarkable) development and
   application in thebook Zohar (Splendour' - the edition used by us is
   the 8vo. edition, Amsterdam, 1805, in 3 vols, with the Amsterdam
   edition of the Tikkune Zohar; other Kabbalistic books used by us need
   not here be mentioned). The main portion of the Zohar is in the form of
   a Commentary on the Pentateuch, but other tractates are interspersed
   throughout the volumes.

   5. Dogmatic Theology. - This is fully treated of in the text of these
   volumes.

   6. Historic Theology. - To describe and criticise the various works
   which come under this designation would require the expansion of this
   Appendix into a Tractate. Some of these compositions have been referred
   to in the text of these volumes. For a general account and criticism of
   them I must again refer to the History of the Jewish Nation' (see
   especially the chapters on The Progress of Arts and Sciences among the
   Jews,' and Theological Science and Religious Belief in Palestine'). For
   the historical and critical account of Rabbinic historical works the
   student is referred to Zunz, Gottesd. Vortr. d. Juden, ch. viii. The
   only thing which we shall here attempt is a translation of the
   so-called Megillath Taanith, or Roll of Fast;' rather, a Calendar of
   the days on which fasting and mourning was prohibited. The oldest part
   of the document (referred to in the Mishnah, Taan. ii. 8) dates from
   the beginning of the second century of our era, and contains elements
   of even much greater antiquity. That which has come down of it is here
   given in translation: [6414] -

    MEGILLATH TAANITH, OR ROLL OF FASTS.

   These are the days on which it is not lawful to fast, and during some
   of them mourning must also be intermitted.

    I. Nisan.

   1. From the 1st day of the month Nisan, and to the 8th of it, it was
   settled about the daily sacrifice (that it should be paid out of the
   Temple-treasury) - mourning is prohibited.

   2. And from the 8th to the end of the Feast (the 27th) the Feast of
   Weeks was re-established - mourning is interdicted.

    II. Iyar.

   1. On the 7th Iyar the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem - mourning
   is prohibited.

   2. On the 14th is the day of the little (the second) Passover -
   mourning is prohibited.

   3. On the 23rd the sons of Acra [6415] issued from Jerusalem.

   4. On the 27th the imposts were removed from Judæa and Jerusalem.

   III. Sivan.

   1. On the 17th Sivan the tower of Zur was taken.

   2. On the15th and 16th men of Bethshean and of the plain were exiled.

   3. On the 25th the tax-gatherers were withdrawn from Judah and
   Jerusalem.

    IV. Tammuz.

   1. On the 14th Tammuz the Book of Decisions (aggravating ordinances')
   was abrogated - mourning is prohibited.

    V. Abh.

   1. On the 15th Abh the season of wood-offerings (for the Temple use) of
   priests (comp. Jos. War ii. 17. 6) - mourning is prohibited.

   2. On the 24th we returned to our Law.

    VI. Elul.

   1. On the 7th of Elul the day of the Dedication of Jerusalem - mourning
   prohibited.

   2. On the 17th the Romans withdrew from Judæa and Jerusalem.

   3. On the 22nd we returned to kill the apostates.

    VII. Tisri.

   1. ON the 3rd Tishri the mention of the Divine Name was removed from
   public deeds.

    VIII. Marcheshvan.

   1. On the 23rd Marcheshvan the Sorigah (a partition-wall in the Temple,
   supposed to have been erected by the heathen, comp. 1 Macc. iv. 43-46)
   was removed from the Temple-court.

   2. On the 25th the wall of Samaria was taken.

   3. On the 27th the meat offering was again brought on the altar.

    IX. Kislev.

   1. On the 3rd the Simavatha (another heathen structure) was removed
   from the court or the Temple,

   2. On the 7th is a feast day.

   3. On the 21st is the day of Mount Garizim - mourning is prohibited.

   4. On the 25th the eight days of the Feast of Lights (Chanukah) begin -
   mourning is prohibited.

    X. Tebheth.

   1. On the 28th the congregation was re-established according to the
   Law. (This seems to refer to the restoration of the Sanhedrin after the
   Sadducean members were removed, under the rule of Queen Salome. See the
   historical notes in Appendix IV.)

    XI. Shebhat.

   1. On the 2nd a feast day [6416] - mourning is prohibited.

   2. On the 22nd the work, of which the enemy said that it was to be in
   the Temple, was destroyed - mourning is interdicted. (This seems to
   refer to the time of Caligula, when, on the resistance of the Jews, the
   statute of the Emperor was at last not allowed to be in the Temple.)

   3. On the 28th King Antiochus was removed from Jerusalem (supposed to
   refer to the day of the death of Antiochus, son of Antiochus Epiphanes,
   in his expedition against the Parthians).

    XII. Adar.

   1. On the 8th and the 9th, days of joy on account of rain-fall.

   2. On the 12th is the day of Trajan.

   3. On the 13th is the day of Nicanor (his defeat).

   4. On the 14th and on the 15th are the days of Purim (Feast of Esther)
   - mourning is prohibited.

   5. On the 16th was begun the building the wall of Jerusalem - mourning
   is prohibited.

   6. On the 17th rose the heathens against the remnant of the Scribes in
   the country of Chalcis and of the Zabedaeans, and Israel was delivered.

   7. On the 20th the people fasted for rain, and it was granted to them.

   8. On the 28th the Jews received good tidings that they would no longer
   be hindered from the sayings of the Law - mourning is prohibited.

   On these days every one who has before made a vow of fasting is to give
   himself to prayer.

   (In extenuation of the apparent harshness and literality of our
   renderings, it should be stated, that both the Sepher Yetsirah and the
   Megillath Taanith are here for the first time translated into English.)
     __________________________________________________________________

   [6370] The numbers given by Maimonides, in his Preface to the Mishnah,
   and their arrangement, are somewhat different, but I prefer the more
   critical (sometimes even hypercritical) enumeration of Herzfeld. They
   are also enumerated in Peiser's Nachlath Shimoni, Part I. pp. 47-49 b.

   [6371] Peah ii. 6; Yad. iv. 3; Tos. Peah iii. 2; Orlah iii. 9.

   [6372] Erub. 4 a; Nidd. 72 b; Ab. d. R. N. 19, 25; Tos. Chall. i. 6;
   Shabb 70 a; Bekh. 16 a; Naz. 28 b; Chull. 27 a, 28 a; 42 a, 43 a; Moed
   Q 3 b. Of these, the most interesting to the Christian reader are about
   the 11 ingredients of the sacred incensed (Ker. 6 b); about the 26
   kinds of work prohibited on the Sabbath (Shabb. 70 a); that the father,
   but not the mother, might dedicate a child under age to the Nazirate
   (Naz. 28 b); the 7 rules as to slaughtering animals; to cut the neck;
   to cut through the trachea, and, in the case of four-footed animals,
   also through the gullet; not to pause while slaughtering; to use a
   knife perfectly free of all notches, and quite sharp; not to strike
   with the knife; not to cut too near the head; and not to stick, the
   knife into the throat; certain determinations about the Feast of
   Tabernacles, such as about the pouring out of the water, &c.

   [6373] Ab. Z. 36 b; Niddah 45 a, 72 b.

   [6374] Jer. Meg. i. 9; Shabb. 28 b; Men. 32 a; 35 a.

   [6375] Ned. 37 b. These four Halakhoth are: as to the authoritative
   pronunciation of certain words in the Bible; as to the Itur Sopherim,
   or syntactic and stylistic emendation in the following five passages:
   Gen xviii. 5, xxiv. 55; Numb. xxxi. 2; Ps. 1xviii. 22 (A.V. 21); xxxvi.
   7 (A.V. 6); about the Qeri velo Kethibh, words read but not written in
   the text; and the Kethibh velo Qeri, words written but not read in the
   text.

   [6376] Pes. 110 b. Not to eat two (even numbers) of an egg, a nut, or
   cucumber, &c.

   [6377] Eduy. viii. 7; Tanch. 60 a. The first of these Halakhoth speaks
   of the activity of Elijah in preparation for the coming of the Messiah
   (Mal. iii. 23, 24, A.V. iv. 5, 6), as directed to restore those of pure
   Israelitish descent who had been improperly extruded, and to extrude
   those who had been improperly admitted.

   [6378] Baba K. 81 a; Tos. Baba M. 11; Jer. Baba K. iii. 2. Among the
   police regulations is this curious one, that all were allowed to fish
   in the Lake of Galilee, but not to lay down nets, so as not to impede
   the navigation.

   [6379] According to tradition (Sot. 47 a and b) the Eshkoloth, or
   bunches of grapes,' ceased with José. The expression refers to the
   Rabbis, and Herzfeld ingeniously suggests this explanation of the
   designation, that after José they were no longer undivided like bunches
   of grapes, but divided in their opinions. For other explanations comp.
   Derenbourg, u. s. pp. 88, 456-458.

   [6380] For a detailed account of the views of Josephus on the Canon and
   on Inspiration, I take leave to refer to my article in Smith's
   Dictionary of Christian Biography,' vol. iii pp 453, 454.

   [6381] Comp. Zunz, Gottesd Vortr. pp. 101, 102, and C. Seligmann, d
   Buch d Weish d. Jesus Sirach. The Talmudic quotations from the work of
   the elder Jesus have been repeatedly collated I may here take leave to
   refer to my collection translation of them in Append. II. to the
   History of the Jewish Nation.'

   [6382] Comp. also 2 Macc. ii. 13, 14.

   [6383] The general statement that this decree was intended to prevent a
   common or profane use of the Scripture does not explain its origin. The
   latter seems to have been as follows: At first the priests in the
   Temple were wont to deposit the Terumah near the copy of the Law there
   kept (Shabb 14 a). But as mice were thereby attracted, and damage to
   the Sacred roll was apprehended, it was enacted that the Sacred Roll in
   the Temple rendered all meat that touched it unclean. This decree gave
   rise to another, by way of further precaution, that even the hands
   which touched the Sacred Roll, or any other part of the Bible became
   unclean (so that, having touched the latter, they could not touch the
   Terumah). Then followed (in the course of development) a third decree,
   that such touch defiled also outside the Temple. Finally, the first
   decree was modified to the effect that the Sacred Roll in the Temple
   did not defile the hands., while all other Scriptures (anywhere else)
   defiled them (Chel xv. 6) The explanation offered to the Sadducees by
   R. Jochanan b. Zakkai is evidently intended to mislead (Yad iv. 6),
   Comp. Levy, Neuhebr Wörterb. vol. ii. pp. 163, 164.

   [6384] The difference in the degree of inspiration between the
   Prophetic and the Hagiographic books is not accurately defined. Later
   Jewish theologians rather evade it by describing the former as given by
   the spirit of prophecy,' the latter by the Holy Spirit.' It must,
   however, be admitted that in Jewish writings the Holy Spirit' is not
   only not a Personality, but an influence very inferior to what we
   associate with the designation.

   [6385] The proof-passages are quoted in Zunz, u. s. p.44 note, also in
   J. Delitzsch, De Inspir. Script. S. pp. 7, 8.

   [6386] At the same time, in Meg. 31 b the formulation of the curses by
   Moses in Lev. xxvi. is said to have been {hebrew} (from God directly),
   while that in Deut. xxviii. was {hebrew} (from Moses himself).

   [6387] A more terribly repulsive instance of this can scarcely be
   conceived than in Debar R. 11, of which the worst parts are reproduced
   in Yalkut 304 a, b, c.

   [6388] Comp. generally Hamburger's Real. Encycl. vols. i. and ii. See
   also Delitzsch's work already quoted, and Fürst, Kanon d. Alten Test.
   nach Talmud u. Midrasch.

   [6389] Fürst, u. s. pp. 57-59, quotes Ber. 57 b and Sot. 7 b,  Ab de R.
   Nathan 40. But no one who reads either Ber. 57 b, or Ab. de R. Nathan
   40, would feel inclined to draw from passages so strange and repulsive
   any serious inference, while Sot. 7 b is far too vague to serve as a
   basis. In general, this is one of the many instances in which Fürst,
   as, indeed, many modern Jewish writers, propounds as metters of
   undoubted fact, what, on critical examination, is seen to rest on no
   certain historical basis - sometimes on no basis at all.

   [6390] Which in another place we have shown to be erroneous.

   [6391] Fürst, p. 56. See also Reuss, Gesch. d. Heil. Schr. A. T. (p.
   550), who gives its date as 132.

   [6392] Fürst, who holds the Maccabean origin of the Book of Daniel, is
   so frequently inconsistent with himself in the course of his remarks on
   the subject, that it is sometimes difficult to understand him.
   Occasionally, when argument is wanting, he asserts that a thing is
   self-evident (es versteht sich von selbst). Such a self evident'
   assertion, for which, however, no historical evidence is offered -
   which, indeed, runs in the opposite direction - is summarized on page
   100. But the word self-evident' has no place in historical discussions,
   where only that is evident which rests on historical grounds.

   [6393] This is admitted even by Mr. Drummond (Jewish Messiah,' pp. 246,
   245-257, 260). Mr. Drummond's book is quoted as representing the
   advocacy by a distinguished English scholar of the Maccabean theory of
   the authorship of Daniel.

   [6394] Drummond, u. s. p. 261.

   [6395] And yet there are frequent indications that Rabbinism sought
   guidance on these very subjects in the prophecies of Daniel. Thus, in
   the Pirqé de R. Eliezer there are repeated references ot the four
   monarchies - the Persian, Median, Macedonian, and Roman - when, in the
   time of the fifth monarchy, that of the children of Ishmael - after a
   terrible war against Rome, the Messiah would come (comp. Pirqé de R.
   El. 19, and especially 28, 30, and 48).

   [6396] Among them the following may be mentioned (Chull. 37 b): Ezek.
   iv. 14 &c., and (Mop 45 a), Ezek. xiv. 31 were regarded as suggesting
   that these prohibitions applied only to priests; (Moed. K. 5 a) Ezek.
   xliv. 19, seemed to imply that an ordinary Israelite might perform
   sacrificial service, while Ezek. xiv. 18 appeared to enjoin a sacrifice
   nowhere mentioned in the Pentateuch.

   [6397] For ex. Prov. xxvi. 4, 5.

   [6398] As for ex. Ps. cxv. 17 compared with Eccl. iv. 2 and ix. 4.

   [6399] For ex. Eccl. ii. 2 comp. with vii. 3; and again, vii 15, or iv.
   2 comp. with ix. 4.

   [6400] The school of Shammai was against, that of Hillel in favour of
   the Canonicity of Ecclesiastes (Eduy. v. 3). In Tos. Yad. ii.
   Ecclesiastes is said to be uninspired, and to contain only the wisdom
   of Solomon.

   [6401] But it must be admitted that some of these conciliations are
   sufficiently curious.

   [6402] But on this subject opinion differ very widely (see Shir haSh.
   R. 1, ed Warshan, pp. 3 b and 4 a) the only point on which all are
   agreed being that he wrote Ecclesiastes last - Rabbi Jonathan
   irreverently remarking that when a man is old he utters dibhré hadhalim
   - vain words!

   [6403] In Jer. Tann. 68 a we read three codices of the Pentateuch.
   respectively named after one word in each codex. the reading of which
   was either rejected or adopted on comparison with the others.

   [6404] Thus, we have different notices about the number of verses in
   the Bible, the arrangement of the psalter, the medial latter and medial
   word in the Pentateuch, and the number of its sections and chapters
   (Kidd. 30 a; Yalkut i. § 855). But the sum total of verses in the Bible
   (23,199) differs by 99 from that in our present text. Similarity, one
   of the most learned Rabbinic critics of the third century declares
   himself at a loss about the exact medial letter, word, and verse of the
   Pentateuch, while in Palestine that Pentateuch seems to have been
   arranged into 1,085, in Babalonia into 378 chapters (comp. Fürst,
   Kultur-u. Liter. Gesch. p. 62).

   [6405] But comp. and opinion, previously quoted, about the last verses
   in Deut.

   [6406] History of the Jewish Nation,' p. 418.

   [6407] The expression the epistles of the kings concerning the holy
   gifts' must refer ot the official Persian documents concerning gifts to
   the Temple, &c.

   [6408] Shabb. 13 b; Chag. 13 a; Men. 45 a.

   [6409] There are in the Mishnah sixteen variations: Lev. xi. 33; xxv.
   36; Numb. xxviii. 5; xxxii. 22; Deut. xxiv. 19; Josh. viii. 33; 2 Sam.
   xv. 6; Is. x. 13; Ezek. xlvi. 21; Amos ix. 14: Mal. iii. 16, 23 (A. V.
   iv. 5); Ps. lxviii. 27; Job i. 1; Prov. xxii. 28; 2 Chron. xxviii. 15.
   In the Talmud 105 such variations occur, viz., Gen. vii 8; 23; xv. 2;
   xxv. 6, xxxv. 18; Ex. xii. 3, 6; xiii. 16; xxiv. 5; xxv. 13 xxxi. 1;
   Lev. iv. 25, 30, 34; x. 12; xv. 10; xviii. 18; Numb. v. 19; xviii. 16;
   Deut. vi. 7, 9, 20; xxiii. 1; xxv. 7; xxxiii. 27; xxxiv 6; Josh. iii.
   17; x. 11; xiv. 7, 10; xvi. 6; xxiii. 15; Judg. xv. 20; xvi. 31; 1Sam.
   ii 24; 2 Sam. iii. 25; xxiv. 15; 2 Kings xvii. 31; xxiii. 17; Is ii. 3;
   xxxviii. 16; xlii, 5; liviii. 7; Jer. iii 22; xxix. 11; Ezek. x1. 48;
   xliv. 9; xlvii. 1; Hos. iv. 11; Amos. iv. 6; viii. 11; ix. 14; Hag. ii
   8; Mich. iv. 2; Zech. xii. 10; Mal. ii. 12; Ps. v. 5; xvi. 10 (where
   the difference is important); xxvi. 5, 6; xxxvii. 32; lvi. 11; lxii.
   12; lxviii. 21; xcv. 5; xcvii. 7; cxxvii. 5; cxxxix. 5; 6; 8; xiii. 4
   xiv. 16; xxxvi. 5, 11; Ruth, iii. 15; iv. 11; Eccl. ix. 14, 15; x. 5;
   Dan. ii. 29; iv. 14; vi. 18; x. 13; Ezr. iv. 3; Neh. iv. 16; viii. 8
   (bis), 15, 17; 1 Chron. iii. 17; iv. 10; v. 24; xvl. 5; xvii. 9; xxvi.
   8, 23; xxvii. 34; 2 Chron. xxvi. 2; xxxi. 5, 13.

   [6410] History of the Jewish Nation,' pp. 435, 436.

   [6411] The expression occurs already in Job xxvi. 7.

   [6412] Probably twofold' might best express the meaning.

   [6413] Mark also the symbolical significance of the numbers 3, 7, 12 as
   the manifestation of God - the Archetype of all else.

   [6414] All the glosses on and in the text have been omitted. The
   edition of the Tractate in its present form used by us is that of
   Warshau, 1874, and consists (with comments) of 20 octavo (double)
   pages. For the criticism of the work see specially Grätz, Gesch. d.
   Juden, vol. iii. pp. 415-428, and Derenbourg, Hist. de la Palest. pp.
   439-446. A special tractate on the subject is Schmilg's inaugural
   dissertation, Leipzig, 1874. It need scarcely be said that these
   writers entertain different views as to the historical dates specially
   commemorated in the Megillath Taanith, and the events to which they
   refer. Comp. also Wolfius, Biblioth. Rabb. vol. i. p.385, vol. ii. p.
   1325, vol. iii. p. 11963. My edition of Wolfius has the great advantage
   of the marginal notes and corrections by the great Jewish historian,
   the late Dr. Jost, who, many years ago, gave me his copy.

   [6415] We abstain from giving historical notes. For the different
   explanations of the commemorative dates the reader is referred to the
   books already mentioned.

   [6416] This feast seems to refer to the death of King Herod; that on
   the 7th Kislev to the death of King Jannæus.
     __________________________________________________________________

APPENDIX VI.

   List of the Maccabees, of the Family of Herod, of the High-Priests, the
   Roman Procurators of Judæa, and Roman Govenors of Syria

   figure 6

      Figure A6a.

   figure 6b

      Figure A6b.

   figure 6c

      Figure A6c.

   figure 6d

      Figure A6d.

   figure 6e

      Figure A6e.
     __________________________________________________________________

APPENDIX VII.

   ON THE DATE OF THE NATIVITY OF OUR LORD

   (Vol. i. Book II. ch. iii. and other passages).

   So much, that is generally accessible, has of late been written on this
   subject, and such accord exists on the general question, that only the
   briefest statement seems requisite in this place, the space at our
   command being necessarily reserved for subjects which have either not
   been treated of by previous writers, or in a manner or form that seemed
   to make a fresh investigation desirable.

   At the outset it must be admitted, that absolute certainty is
   impossible as to the exact date of Christ's Nativity - the precise year
   even, and still more the month and the day. But in regard to the year,
   we possess such data as to invest it with such probability, as almost
   to amount to certainty.

   1. The first and most certain date is that of the death of Herod the
   Great. Our Lord was born before the death of Herod, and, as we judge
   from the Gospel-history, very shortly before that event. Now the year
   of Herod's death has been ascertained with, we may say, absolute
   certainty, as shortly before the Passover of the year 750 A.U.C., which
   corresponds to about the 12th of April of the year 4 before Christ,
   according to our common reckoning. More particularly, shortly before
   the death of Herod there was a lunar eclipse (Jos. Ant. xvii. 6. 4),
   which, it is astronomically ascertained, occurred on the night from the
   12th to the 13th of March of the year 4 before Christ. Thus the death
   of Herod must have taken place between the 12th of March and the 12th
   of April - or, say, about the end of March (comp. Ant. xvii. 8. 1).
   Again, the Gospel-history necessitates an interval of, at the least,
   seven or eight weeks before that date for the birth of Christ (we have
   to insert the purification of the Virgin - at the earliest, six weeks
   after the Birth - The Visit of the Magi, and the murder of the children
   at Bethlehem, and, at any rate, some days more before the death of
   Herod). Thus the Birth of Christ could not have possibly occurred after
   the beginning of February 4 b.c., and most likely several weeks
   earlier. This brings us close to the ecclesiastical date, the 25th of
   December, in confirmation of which we refer to what has been stated in
   vol. i. p. 187, see especially note 3. At any rate, the often repeated,
   but very superficial objection, as to the impossibility of shepherds
   tending flocks in the open at that season, must now be dismissed as
   utterly untenable, not only for the reasons stated in vol. i. p. 187,
   but even for this, that if the question is to be decided on the ground
   of rain-fall, the probabilities are in favour of December as compared
   with February - later than which it is impossible to place the birth of
   Christ.

   2. No certain inference can, of course, be drawn from the appearance of
   the star' that guided the Magi. That, and on what grounds, our
   investigations have pointed to a confirmation of the date of the
   Nativity, as given above, has been fully explained in vol. i. ch. vi...
   (see specially p. 213).

   3. On the taxing of Quirinius, see vol. i. pp. 181, 182.

   4. The next historical datum furnished by the Gospels is that of the
   beginning of St. John the Baptist's ministry, which, according to St.
   Luke, was in the fifteenth year of Tiberius, and when Jesus was about
   thirty years old' (St. Luke iii. 23). The accord of this with our
   reckoning of the date of the Nativity has been shown in vol. i. p. 264.

   5. A similar conclusion would be reached by following the somewhat
   vague and general indication furnished in St. John ii. 20.

   6. Lastly, we reach the same goal if we follow the historically
   somewhat uncertain guidance of the date of the Birth of the Baptist, as
   furnished in this notice (St. Luke i. 5) of his annunication to his
   father, that Zacharias officiated in the Temple as on of the course of
   Abia' (see here vol. i. p. 135). In Taan. 29 a we have the notice, with
   which that of Josephus agrees (War vi. 4. 1. 5), that at the time of
   the destruction of the Temple the course of Jehoiarib,' which was the
   first of the priestly courses, was on duty. That was on the 9-10 Ab of
   the year 823 A.U.C., or the 5th August of the year 70 of our era. If
   this calculation be correct (of which, however, we cannot feel quite
   sure), then counting the courses' of priests backwards, the course of
   Abia would, in the year 748 A.U.C. (the year before the birth of
   Christ) have been on duty from the 2nd to the 9th of October. This also
   would place the birth of Christ in the end of December of the following
   year (749), taking the expression sixth month' in St. Luke i. 26, 36,
   in the sense of the running month (from the 5th to the 6th month, comp.
   St. Luke i. 24). But we repeat that absolute reliance cannot be placed
   on such calculations, at least so far as regards month and day. (Comp.
   here generally Wieseler, Synopse, and his Beiträge.)
     __________________________________________________________________

APPENDIX VIII.

   RABBINIC TRADITIONS ABOUT ELIJAH, THE FORERUNNER OF THE MESSIAH

   (Vol. i. Book II. ch. iii. p. 143.)

   To complete the evidence, presented in the text, as to the essential
   difference between the teaching of the ancient Synagogue about the
   Forerunner of the Messiah' and the history and mission of John the
   Baptist, as described in the New Testaments, we subjoin a full, though
   condensed, account of the earlier Rabbinic traditions about Elijah.

   Opinions differ as to the descent and birthplace of Elijah. According
   to some, he was from the land of Gilead (Bemid. R. 14), and of the
   tribe of Gad (Tanch. on Gen. xlix. 19). Others describe him as a
   Benjamite, from Jerusalem, one of those who sat in the Hall of Hewn
   Stones' (Tanch. on Ex. xxxi. 2), or else as paternally descended from
   Gad and maternally from Benjamin. [6417] Yet a third opinion, and to
   which apparently most weight attaches, represents him as a Levite, and
   a Priest - nay, as the great High-Priest of Messianic days. This is
   expressly stated in the Targum Pseudo-Jon. on Ex. xl. 10, where it also
   seems implied that he was to anoint the Messiah with the sacred oil,
   the composition of which was among the things unknown in the second
   Temple, but to be restored by Elijah (Tanch. on Ex. xxiii. 20, ed.
   Warsh. p. 91 a, lines 4 and 5 from the top). Another curious tradition
   identifies Elijah with Phinehas (Targum Pseudo-Jon. on Ex. vi.18). The
   same expression as in the Targum (Phinehas - that is Elijah') occurs in
   that great storehouse of Rabbinic tradition, Yalkut (vol. i. p. 245 b,
   last two lines, and col. c). From the pointed manner in which reference
   is made to the parallelism between the zeal of Phinehas and that of
   Elijah, and between their work in reconciling God and Israel, and
   bringing the latter to repentance, we may gather alike the origin of
   this tradition and its deeper meaning. [6418]

   For (as fully explained in Book II. ch. v.) it is one of the principles
   frequently expressed by the ancient Synagogue, in its deeper perception
   of the unity and import of the Old Testament, that the miraculous
   events and Divine interpositions of Israel's earlier history would be
   re-enacted, only with wider application, in Messianic days. If this
   idea underlay the parallelism between Phinehas and Elijah, it is still
   more fully carried out in that between Elijah and Moses. On comparing
   the Scriptural account of these two messengers of God we are struck
   with the close correspondence between the details of their history. The
   Synagogue is careful to trace this analogy step by step (Yalkut, vol.
   ii. p. 32 d) the final deliverance of Israel of Egypt, so would the
   final deliverance by Elijah for ever break the yoke of all foreign
   rule. The allusion here is to the part which Elijah was expected to
   take in the furture wars of Gog and Magog' (Seder Olam R. c. xvii.)
   Indeed, this parallelism is carried so far, that tradition has it,
   that, when Moses was commissioned by God to go to Pharoah, he pleaded
   that God should rather send by him whom He designed to send for the far
   greater deliverance in the latter days. On this it was told him that
   Elijah's mission would be to Israel, while he(Moses) was sent to
   Pharaoh (Pirqé de R. Eliez. 40). [6419] Similarly, it is asserted that
   the cave from which Moses beheld the Divine Presence passing before him
   (Ex. xxxiii. 22) was the same as that in which Elijah stood under
   similar circumstances - that cave having been created with the rest of
   the world, but specially on the eve of the world's first Sabbath
   (Siphré on Deut. ed. Friedmann, p. 147 a, last line). Considering this
   paralelism between them, the occurrence of the somewhat difficult
   expression will scarcely surprise us, that in the days of the Messiah
   Moses and Elijah would come together - as one' (Debar. R. 3, at the
   end). [6420]

   It has been noted in the text that the activity of Elijah, from the
   time of his appearance in the days of Ahab to that of his return as the
   forerunner of the Messiah, is represented in Jewish tradition as
   continuous, and that he is almost constantly introduced on the scene,
   either as in converse with some Rabbi, or else as busy about Israel's
   welfare, and connected with it. Thus Elijah chronicles in heaven the
   deeds of man (Seder Olam R. xvii.), or else writes down the observances
   of the commandments by men, and then the Messiah and God seal it
   (Midrast on Ruth ii. 14, last line, ed. Warsh. p. 43 b). In general, he
   is ever interested in all that concerns Israel's present state or their
   future deliverance (Sanh. 98 a). Indeed, he is connected with the
   initiatory rite of the covenant, in acknowledgement of his zeal [6421]
   in the restoration of circumcision, when, according to tradition, it
   had been abrogated by the ten tribes after their separation from Judah.
   God accordingly had declared: Israel shall not make the covenant of
   circumcision, but thou shalt see it,' and the sages decreed that (at
   circumcision) a seat of honour shall be placed for the Angel of the
   Covenant (Mal. iii. 2; Pirqé de R. Eliez. 29, end). Tradition goes even
   further. Not only was he the only ambassador to whom God had delegated
   His three special keys:' of birth, of the rainfall, and of waking the
   dead (Yalkut, vol. ii. 32 c), but his working was almost Divine (Tanch.
   Bereshith 7; ed. Warsh. p. 6 b, last line, and 7 a).

   We purposely pass over the activity of Elijah in connection with
   Israel, and especially its Rabbis and saints, during the interval
   between the Prophet's death and his return as the Forerunner of the
   Messiah, such as Jewish legend describes it. No good purpose could be
   served by repeating what so frequently sounds not only utterly foolish
   and superstitious, but profane. In Jewish legend Elijah is always
   introduced as the guardian of the interests of Israel, whether
   theologically or personally - as it were the constant living medium
   between God and his people, the link that binds the Israel of the
   present - with its pursuits, wants, difficulties and interests - to the
   bright Messianic future of which he is the harbinger. This probably is
   the idea underlying the many, often grotesque, legends about his
   sayings and doings. Sometimes he is represented as, in his well-meant
   zeal, going so far as to bear false witness in order to free Rabbis
   from danger and difficulty (Berach. 58 a). In general, he is always
   ready to instruct, to comfort, or to heal, condescending even to so
   slight a malady as the toothache (Ber. R. 96, end). But most frequently
   is he the adviser an friend of the Rabbis, in whose meetings and
   studies he delighteth. Thus he was a frequent attendant in Rabh's
   Academy - and his indiscretion in divulging to his friends the secrets
   of heaven had once procured for him in heaven the punishment of fiery
   stripes (Babha Mets. 85 b). But it is usesless to do more than indicate
   all this. Our object is to describe the activity of Elijah in
   connection with the coming of the Messiah.

   When, at length, the time of Israel's redemption arrived - then would
   Elijah return. Of two things only are we sure in connection with it.
   Elijah will not come yesterday' - that is, he will be revealed the same
   day that he comes - and he will not come on the eve of either a Sabbath
   or feast-day, in order not to interrupt the festive rest, nor to break
   the festive laws (Erub. 43 b, Shabb. 33 a). Whether he came one day
   (Er. 43 b) or three days before the Messiah (Yalkut, vol. ii. p. 53 c,
   about the middle) his advent would be close to that of that Messiah
   (Yalkut, vol. i. p. 310 a, line 21 from bottom). [6422] The account
   given of the three days between the advent of Elijah and of the Messiah
   is peculiar (Yalkut, vol. ii. p.53 c). Commenting on Is. lii. 7, it is
   explained, that on the first of those three days Elijah would stand on
   the mountains of Israel, lamenting the desolateness of the land, his
   voice being heard from one end of the world to the other, after which
   he would proclaim: Peace' cometh to the world; peace' cometh to the
   world! Similarly on the second day he would proclaim, Good' cometh to
   the world; good' cometh to the world! Lastly, on the third day, he
   would, in the same manner as the two previous days, make proclamation:
   Jeshuah [6423] (salvation) cometh to the world; Jeshuah (salvation)
   cometh to the world,' which, in order to mark the difference between
   Israel and the Gentiles, would be further explained by this addition:
   Saying unto Zion - Thy King cometh!'

   The period of Elijah's advent would, according to one opinion (Pirqé de
   R. Eliez. 43), be a time of genuine repentance by Israel, although it
   is not stated that this change would be brought about by his ministry.
   On the other hand, his peculiar activity would consist in settling
   ceremonial and ritual questions, doubts, and difficulties, in making
   peace, in restoring those who by violence had been wrongfully excluded
   from the congregation and excluding those who by violence had been
   wrongfully introduced (Bab. Mets. i. 8; ii. 8; iii. 4, 5; Eduy. vii.
   7). He would also restore to Israel these three things which had been
   lost: the golden pot of Manna (Ex. xvi. 33), the vessel containing the
   anointing oil, and that with the waters of purification - according to
   some, also Aaron's rod that budded and bore fruit. [6424] Again, his
   activity is likened to that of the Angel whom God had sent before
   Israel to drive out and to vanquish the hostile nations (Tanch. on Ex.
   xxiii. 20, § 18 at the close; ed. Warsh. p. 106 b). For. Elijah was to
   appear, then to disappear, and to appear again in the wars of Gog and
   Magog [6425] (Seder Olam R. xvii.). But after that time general peace
   and happiness would prevail, when Elijah would discharge his peculiar
   functions. Finally, to the ministry of Elijah some also ascribed the
   office of raising the dead (Sotah ix. 15, closing words). [6426]

   Such is a summary of ancient Jewish tradition concerning Elijah as the
   forerunner of the Messiah. Comparing it with the New Testament
   description of John the Baptist, it will at least be admitted that,
   from whatever source the sketch of the activity and mission of the
   Baptist be derived, it cannot have been from the ideal of the ancient
   Synagogue, nor yet from popularly current Jewish views. And, indeed -
   could there be a greater contrast than between the Jewish forerunner of
   the Messiah and him of the New Testament?
     __________________________________________________________________

   [6417] This question is fully discussed in Ber. R. 71 towards the
   close. Comp. also Shem. R. 40. For fuller details we refer to our
   remarks on Gen. xlix. 19 in Appendix IX.

   [6418] I cannot agree with either of the explanations of this passage
   offered by Castelli (Il Messia, p. 199), whose citation is scarcely as
   accurate as usually. The passage quoted is in the Par. Pinchas, opening
   lines.

   [6419] Castelli writes: Lo Prega a mandare in luogo suo Elic, già
   esistente almeno in insipirito; e Dio risponde, che è predestinato non
   a quella, ma alla finale redenzione. But there are three inaccuracies
   here, for (1) Moses does not name Elijah; (2) there is not a hint that
   Elijah was pre-existing in spirit; while (3) God's reply to Moses is as
   in our text.

   [6420] The question has been raised whether Jeremiah (or even Isaiah)
   was also to appear in Messianic days. In favour of this view 2 Macc.
   ii. 1-8 and xv. 14-16 afford, to say the least, presumptive evidence.
   We do not refer to 4 Esdras ii. 18, because the two first and the two
   last chapters of that book in our Apocrypha (2 Esdras) are spurious,
   being for much later, probably Christian authorship. Gfrörer thinks
   that 4 Esdras v. (2 Esdras vii. 28) refers to Jeremiah and Isaiah
   (Urchrist vol. ii. p. 230). But I cannot draw the same inference from
   it. On the other hand, there is a remarkable passage in Mechilta on Ex.
   xvi. 33 (ed. Weiss, p. 59 b), which not only seems to conjoin Jeremiah
   with the Messiah (though the inaccurate rendering of Wetstein, Nov.
   Test. vol. i. p. 430 conveys an exaggerated and wrong impression of
   this), but reminds us of 2 Mac. ii. 1-18.

   [6421] In this passage also reference is made to the zeal of Phinehas
   as corresponding to that of Elijah.

   [6422] Schöttgen (Horæ Hebr. tomus ii. p. 534) has not correctly
   apprehended the meaning of this passage. It is not statim cum ipso
   Messiæ adventu,' but prope or proxime ({hebrew}.) Schöttgen writes
   inaccurately {hebrew}.

   [6423] Of course this is the Hebrew word used in Is. lii. 7 (that
   published salvation'). None the less significant, however, in this
   connection, is the fact that the word is pronounced like the Name of
   Jesus.

   [6424] The reader will find, in our remarks on Ps. ex. 2 in Append. IX.
   the curious traditions about this rod of Aaron, as given in Bemid. R.
   18 and Yalkut on Ps. cx. 2. The story of the wonder-working rod is told
   somewhat differently in the Targum Pseudo-Jon. on Ex. ii. 20, 21 and
   iv. 20; and again, with other variations, in Pirké de R. Eliez. 40. In
   the latter passage we are told, that this rod had passed from the
   possession of Joseph (after his death) into the palace of Pharaoh.
   Thence Jethro, who was one of the magicians of Egypt, had removed it to
   his own home. The ability of Moses to read the writing on the rod -
   according to other traditions, to uproot it out of the garden -
   indicated him to Jethro as the future deliverer of Israel, and
   determined him to give to Moses Zipporah for his wife (in preference to
   all other suitors). According to other traditions, Noses had been for
   many years imprisoned, and ministered to by Zipporah, who loved him. It
   may be added, that, according to very ancient tradition, the rod of
   Aaron was one of the things created on the eve of the world's first
   Sabbath (Siphré, ed. Friedmann, p. 147 a, last line).

   [6425] We have purposely omitted all reference to the connection
   between Elijah and the second' Messiah, the son of Ephraim, because
   that line of tradition belongs to a later period than that of Christ.

   [6426] The view of the Apocrypha on the Mission of Elijah may be
   gathered from Ecclus. xlviii. 1-12. Some additional Talmudic notices
   about Elijah will be found at the close of Append. IX. The Sepher
   Eliyahu (Apocalypse of Elijah), published in Jellinek's Beth haMidr.
   part ii. pp. 65-68, adds nothing to our knowledge. It professes to be a
   revelation by the Angel Michael to Elijah of the end and the last days,
   at the close of the fourth monarchy. As it is simply an Apocalyptic
   account of the events of those days, it cannot here find a place,
   however interesting the Tractate. I have purposely not referred to the
   abominable story about Elijah told in Yoma 19 b, last lines.
     __________________________________________________________________

APPENDIX IX.

   LIST OF OLD TESTAMENT PASSAGES MESSIANICALLY APPLIED IN ANCIENT
   RABBINIC WRITINGS

   (Vol. i. Book II. ch. v.)

   THE following list contains the passages in the Old Testament applied
   to the Messiah or to Messianic times in the most ancient Jewish
   writings. They amount in all to 456, thus distributed: 75 from the
   Pentateuch, 243 from the Prophets, and 138 from the Hagiorgrapha, and
   supported by more than 558 separate quotations from Rabbinic writings.
   Despite all labour care, it can scarcely be hoped that the list is
   quite complete, although, it is hoped, no important passage has been
   omitted. The Rabbinic references might have been considerably
   increased, but it seemed useless to quote the same application of a
   passage in many different books. Similarly, for the sake of space, only
   the most important Rabbinic quotations have been translated in extenso.
   The Rabbinic works from which quotations have been made are: the
   Targumim, the two Talmuds, and the most ancient Midrashim, but neither
   the Zohar (as the date of its composition is in dispute), nor any other
   Kabbalistic work, nor yet the younger Midrashim, nor, of course, the
   writings of later Rabbis. I have, however, frequently quoted from the
   well-known work Yalkut, because, although of comparatively late date,
   it is really, as its name implies, a collection and selection from more
   than fifty older and accredited writings, and adduces passages now not
   otherwise accessible to us. And I have the more readily availed myself
   of it, as I have been reluctantly forced to the conclusion that even
   the Midrashim preserved to us have occassionally been tampered with for
   controversial purposes. I have quoted from the best edition of Yalkut
   (Frankfort a. M., 1687), but in the case of the other Midrashim I have
   been obliged to content myself with such more recent reprints as I
   possessed, instead of the older and more expensive editions. In quoting
   from the Midrashim, not only the Parashah, but mostly also the folio,
   the page, and frequently even the lines are referred to. Lastly, it
   only remains to acknowledge in general that, so far as possible, I have
   availed myself of the labours of my predecessors - specially of those
   of Schöttgen. Yet, even so, I may, in a sense, claim these references
   also as the result of my own labours, since I have not availed myself
   of quotations without comparing them with the works from which they
   were adduced - a process in which not a few passages quoted had to be
   rejected. And if any student should arrive at a different conclusion
   from mine in regard to any of the passages hereafter quoted, I can at
   least assure him that mine is the result of the most careful and candid
   study I could give to the consideration of each passage. With these
   prefatory remarks I proceed to give the list of Old Testament passages
   Messianically applied in ancient Rabbinic writings.


   In Gen. i. 2, the expression, Spirit of God,' is explained of the
   Spirit of the King Messiah,' with reference to Is. xi. 2, and the
   moving on the face of the deep' of repentance,' according to Lam. ii.
   19. So in Ber. R. 2, and in regard to the first point also in Ber. R.
   8, in Vayyik. R. 14, and in other places.

   Gen. ii. 4: These are the generations - {hebrew} - of the heavens and
   of the earth,' taken in connection with Gen. iii. 15 and Ruth iv. 18.
   Here we note one of the most curious Messianic interperations in Ber.
   R. 12 (ed. Warsh. p. 24 b). It is noted that the word generations'
   ({hebrew}) is always written in the Bible without the {hebrew} which is
   the equivalent for the numeral 6, except in Gen. ii. 4 and Ruth iv. 18.
   This to indicate that subsequent to Gen. ii. 4 the Fall took place, in
   which Adam lost {hebrew} - six - things: his glorious sheen (Job xiv.
   20); life (Gen. iii. 19)); his stature (Gen. iii. 8 - either by 100, by
   200, by 300, or even by 900 cubits); the fruit of the ground; the
   fruits of the trees (Gen. iii. 17); and the heavenly lights. We have
   now seen why in Gen. ii. 4 - that is, previous to the Fall - the
   {hebrew} is still in {hebrew}, since at that time these six things were
   not yet lost. But the {hebrew} reappears in the word {hebrew} in Ruth
   iv. 18, because these six things are to be rstored to man by the son of
   Pharez' - or the Messiah (comp. for each of these six things: Judg. v.
   31 b; Is. lxviii. 22; Lev. xxvi. 13; Zech. viii. 12; Is. xxx. 26). It
   is added that although - according to the literal rendering of Ps.
   xlix. 12 (in Heb. ver. 13) - man did not remain unfallen one single
   night, yet, for the sake of the Sabbath, the heavely lights were not
   extinguished till after the close of the Sabbath. When Adam saw the
   darknes, it is added, he was greatly afraid, saying: Perhaps he, of
   whom it is written, he shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his
   heel,' cometh to molest and attack me, and he said, Surely the darkness
   shall cover me.' This courious extract at least shown in what context
   the Synagogue applied Gen. iii. 15. The same occurs substantially in
   Shem. R. 30.

   Gen iii. 15. This well-known passage is paraphrased, with express
   reference to the Messiah, in the Targum Pseudo Jonathan and the
   so-called Jerusalem Targum. Schöttgen conjectures that the Talmudic
   designation of heels of the Messiah' (Sot. 49 b, line 2 from top) in
   reference to the near Advent of the Messiah in the description of the
   troubles of those days (comp. St. Matt. x. 35, 36) may have been chosen
   partly with a view to this passage.

   Gen. iv. 25. The language of Eve at the birth of Seth: another seed,'
   is explained as meaning seed which comes from another place,' and
   referred to the Messiah in Ber. R. 23 (ed. Warsh. p. 45 b, lines 8, 7
   from the bottom). The same explanation occurs twice in the Midrash on
   Ruth iv. 19 (in the genealogy of David, ed. Warsh. p. 46 b), the second
   time in connection with Ps. xl. 8 (in the volume of the book it is
   written of me' - bim'gillath sepher - Ruth belonging to the class
   {hebrew}).

   In connection with Gen. v. 1 it is noted in Ber. R. 24, that King
   Messiah will not come till all souls predestined for it have appeared
   in human bodies on earth.

   In Gen. viii. 11 the Targum Pseudo-Jonathan notes that the olive-leaf,
   brought by the dove, was taken from the Mount of the Messiah.

   Gen. ix. 27. The promise, that Japhet shall dwell in the tents of Shem,
   is paraphrased in the Targum Pseudo-Jon. as meaning, that his
   descendants should become proselytes, and dwell in the school of Shem -
   which seems to refer to Messianic times.

   In connection with Gen. xiv. 1, we are reminded in Ber. R. 42, that
   when we see the nations warring together, we may expect the coming of
   the Messiah.

   The promise in Gen. xv. 18 is expected to be finally fulfilled in the
   time of Messiah, in Ber. R. 44.

   In connection with Gen. xviii. 4, 5 it is noted (Ber. R. 48, ed. Warsh.
   p. 87 b) that the words of Abraham to his Angelic guests were to be
   returned in blessing to Abraham's descendants, in the wilderness, in
   the land of Canaan, and in the latter (Messianic) days. Referring only
   to this last point, the words let a little water be fetched,' is
   paralleled with the living waters' in Zech. xiv. 8; wash your feet,'
   with Is.iv. 4 (the washing away of the filth of the daughters of Zion);
   rest under the tree,' with Is. iv. 6: there shall be a tabernacle for a
   shadow in the daytime from the heat;' I will fetch a morsel of bread,'
   with the provision, Ps. lxxii. 16: there shall be a handful of corn in
   the earth,' &c. So also the words: Abraham ran unto the herd,' are
   paralleled with Is. vii. 21 (which is most significantly here applied
   to Messianic times); and lastly, the words, he stood by them,' with
   Mic. ii. 13: the breaker is come up before them.' [6427] The same
   interpretation occurs in Bemid. R. 14 (ed. Warsh. p. 55 a), the
   references to Messianic days there being to Is. xiv. 2; xxx. 25; xli.
   18; vi. 4; and iv. 6.

   The last clause of Gen. xix. 32 is interperted (Ber. R. 51, ed. Warsh.
   p. 95 a), as referring, like the words of Eve about Seth, to the
   Messiah - the sin of the daughters of Lot being explained on the ground
   of their believing that all mankind had been destroyed in the judgment
   that overthrew Sodom.

   The promise in Gen. xxii. 18 is also explained Messianically in Bemid.
   R. 2 (ed. W. P. 5 b), in connection with Num. ii. 32 where it is
   somewhat curiously shown in what sense Israel is to be like the sand of
   the sea.

   Gen. xxxiii. 1. The Midrash conjoins this with Is. lxvi. 7, and notes
   that, before the first oppressor was born, the last Redeemer was
   already born.

   In Gen. xxxv. 21 the Targum Pseudo-Jon. paraphrases the tower of Eder'
   (at Bethlehem) as the place whence the Messiah would be revealed.

   On Gen. xxxviii. 1, 2 there are very remarkable Messianic comments in
   Ber. R. 85.

   Gen. xlix. 1. The Targum Pseudo-Jon. notes, that the end for which the
   Messhah would come was not revealed to Jacob. A similar statement is
   found in the Midrash on the passage (Ber. R. 98, ed. Warsh. p. 173 a),
   where it is said of Jacob and Daniel that they saw the end, and yet it
   was afterwards hid from them. The passage quoted in the case of Daniel
   is Dan. xii. 4.

   Gen. xlix. 9. The expression lion's whelp,' is explained of the Messiah
   in Yalkut 160 (vol. i. p. 49 c), no less than five times; while the
   term he couched,' is referred to the Messiah in Ber. R. 98.

   Gen. xlix. 10. This well-known prediction (on which see the full and
   intersting disciussion in Raym. Martini, Pugio Fidei) is in Yalkut, u.
   s., applied to the Messiah, with a quotation of Ps. ii. 9. This
   expression Shiloh' is also applied to the Messiah, with the curious
   addition, that in the latter days all nations would bring gifts to Him.
   Alike the Targum Onkelos, Pseudo-Jonathan, and the Jerusalem Targum, as
   well as Sanh. 98 b, the Midrash on the passage, and that on Prov. xix.
   21, and on Lam. i. 16, where it is rendered shelo, whose it is,' refer
   the expression Shiloh,' and, indeed, the whole passage, to the Messiah;
   the Midrah Ber. R. (99, ed. Warsh. p. 178 b) with special reference to
   Is. xi. 10, while the promise with reference to the ass's colt is
   brought into connection with Zech. ix. 9, the fulfilment of this
   prophecy being expected along with that in Ezek. xxxvi. 25 (I will
   sprinkle clean water'). Another remarkable statement occurs in the
   Midrash on the passage (Ber. R. 98, ed. Warsh. p. 174 b), which applies
   the verse to the coming of Him of Whom it is written, Zech. ix. 9. Then
   He would wash his garment in wine (Gen. xlix. 11), which is explained
   as meaning the teaching of the Law to Israel, and His clothes in the
   blood of grapes, which is explained as meaning that He would bring them
   back from their errors. One of the Rabbis, however, remarks that Israel
   would not require to be taught by the King Messiah in the latter days,
   since it was written (Is. xi. 10), to it shall the Gentiles seek.' If
   so, then why should the Messiah. come, and what will He do to the
   congregation of Israel? He will redeem Israel, and give them thirty
   commandments, according to Zech. xi. 12. The Targum Pseudo-Jon. and the
   Jer. Targum also apply verse 11 to the Messiah. Indeed, so general was
   this interpretation, that, according popular opinion, to see a
   palm-tree in one's dreams was to see the days of the Messiah (Berach.
   57 a).

   Gen. xlix. 12 is also applied to the Messiah in the Targum Pseudo-Jon.
   and the Jerusalem Targum. So also is verse 18, although not in express
   words.

   In Gen. xlix. 17, last clause, in its connection with ver. 18, the
   Midrash (Ber. R. 98) sees a reference to the disappointment of Jacob in
   mistaking Samson for the Messiah.

   In the prophecy of Gad in Gen. xlix. 19 there is an allusion to
   Messianic days, as Elijah was to be of the tribe of Gad (Ber. R. 99,
   ed. Warsh. p. 179 a). There is, however, in Ber. R. 71, towards the
   close, a dispute whether he was of the tribe of Gad, or of the tribe of
   Benjamin, at the close of which Elijah appears, and settles the dispute
   in a rather summary manner.

   On Gen. l. 10 the Midrash, at the close of Ber. R., remarks that as
   they had mourned, so in Messianic days God would turn their mourning
   into joy, quoting Jer. xxxi. 13 and Is. li 3.

   Ex. iv. 22 is reffered to the Messiah in the Midr. on Ps. ii. 7.

   On Exod. xii. 2, let this be the beginning of months,' it is remarked
   in Shem.R. 15 (ed. Warsh. p. 24 b) that God would make new ten things
   in the latter days, these being marked by the following passages: Is
   lx. 19; Ezek. xlvii. 9; xlvii. 12; Ezek. xvi. 55; Is liv. 11; Is. xi.
   7; Hos. ii. 20; Is. lxv. 19; Is. xxxv. 8; Is. xxxv. 10. Similarly on
   Num. xii. 1 we have, in Shem. R. 51, a parallelism between Old
   Testament times and their institutions and those of the latter days, to
   which Is. xlix. 12 and lx. 8 are suppose to apply.

   On Exod. xii. 42 the Jerus. Targum notes that there were 4 remarkable
   nights: those of creation, of the covenant with Abraham, of the first
   Passover, and of the redemption of the world; and that as Moses came
   out of the desert, so would the Messiah come out of Rome.

   On Exod. xv. 1. It is noted in Mekhilta (ed. Weiss, p. 41 a) that this
   song would be taken up in Messianic days, only with far wide reach, as
   explained in Is. lx 5; lviii. 8; xxxv. 5, 6; Jer. xxxi. 13; and
   Ps.cxxvi. 2.

   Ex. xvi. 25 is applied to the Messiah, it being said that, if Israel
   only kept one sabbath according to the commandment, the Messiah would
   immediately come (Jer. Taan. 64 a).

   Ex. xvi. 33. This manna, it is noted in Mechil. ed. Weiss, p. 59 b, was
   to be preserved for the days of the Messiah. Is. xxx. 15 is similarly
   explained in Jer. Taan. i. 1.

   Ex. xvii. 16 the Targum Pseudo-Jonathan refers to Messianic times.

   Exod. xxi. 1. Shem. R. 30, ed Warsh. p. 44. b, 45 a, notes on the word
   judgments' a number of things connected with judgment, showing how
   Balaam could not have wished the advent of the future deliverance
   (Numb. xxiv. 17), since he was to perish in it; but that Israel should
   cleave to the great hope pressed in Gen. xlix. 18; Is. lvi. 1; lix. 16;
   and especially Zech. ix. 9, of which a different redering is proposed.

   On Exod. xl. 9, 11 there is in the Targum Pesudo-Jon. distinct
   reference to the King Messiah, on whose account the anointing oil was
   to be used.

   The promise (Lev. xxvi. 12) is also referred to the latter, or
   Messianic, days in Yalkut 62 (vol. i. p. 17 b).

   Lev. xxvi. 13 is applied to Messianic times. See our remarks on Gen.
   ii. 4.

   The promise of peace in the Aaronic benediction Num. vi. 26 is referred
   to the peace of the Kingdom of David, in accordance with Is. ix. 7
   (Siphré on Num. par. 42, ed. Friedmann, p. 12 b).

   Num. vii. 12. In connection with this it is marked that the six
   blessings which were lost by the Fall are to be restored by the son of
   Nahshon, i.e. the Messiah (Bem. R. 13, ed. W. p. 51 a).

   In the Jerusalem Targum on Num. xi. 26 the prophecy of Eldad and Medad
   is supposed to have been with regard to the war of the later days
   against Jerusalem and to the defeat of Gog and Magog by the Messiah.

   In Num. xxiii. 21 the term King' is expressly referred to the Messiah
   in Targum Pseudo-Jon. So also Num. xxiv . 7 in the Jer. Targum.

   In Num. xxiv. 17 Balaam's prediction of the Star and Sceptre is
   referred to theMessiah in the Targum Onkelos and the Targum
   Pessudo-Jonathan, as well as in Jer. Taan. iv. 8; Deb. R. 1; Midr. on
   Lament. ii. 2. Similarly verses 20 and 24 of that prophecy are ascribed
   in the Targum Pseudo-Jon. to the Messiah.

   Num. xxvii. 16. In connection with this verse it is noticed that His
   one Spirit is worth as much as all other spirits, according to Is. xi.
   1 (Yalkut, vol. i. p. 247 a).

   Deut. i. 8 is applied to the days of the Messiah in Sphré, 67 a.

   In the comments of Tanchuma on Deut. viii. 1. (ed. Warsh. p. 104 b, 105
   a) there are several allusions to Mesianic days.

   Deut. xi. 21 is applied in Siphré Par. 47 (ed. Friedmann, p. 83 a) to
   the days of the Messiah.

   In Deut. xvi. 3 the record of the deliverance from Egypt is supposed to
   be carried on to the days of the Messiah, in Spihré, Par. 130 (ed.
   Friedmann, p. 101 a). See, also, Ber. i. 5.

   On Deut. xix. 8, 9 it is noted, in Siphré on Deut., Par. 185 (ed.
   Friedm. p. 108 b), that as three of these cities were in terrtiory
   never possessed by Israel, this was to be fulfilled in Messianic times.
   See also Jer. Macc. ii. 7.

   In Tanchuma on Deut. xx. 10 (Par. 19, ed. Warsh. p. 114 b) the offer of
   peace to a hostile city is applied to the future action of Messiah to
   the Gentiles, in accordance with Zech. ix, 10; Is. ii. 4; and Ps
   lxviii. 32; while, on the other hand, the resistance of a city to the
   offer of peace is likened to rebellion against the Messiah, and
   consequent judgment, according to Is. xi. 4.

   Deut. xxiii. 11 is typically applied to the evening of time, when God
   would wash away the filth of the daughters of Zion (Is. iv. 4); and the
   words: when the sun is down' to when King Messiah would come (Tanchuma
   on Par. Ki Thetse 3, ed. Warsh. p. 115 b).

   Deut. xxv. 19 and Deut. xxx. 4 are referred by the Targum Pesudo-Jon.
   the Messianic times. In the latter passage the gathering of dispersed
   Israel by Elijah, and their being brought back by Messiah, are spoken
   of. Comp. also Bem. R., last three lines.

   On Deut. xxxii. 7 Siphré (Par. 210, ed. Friedm. p. 134 a) makes the
   beautiful observation, that in all Israel's afflictions they were to
   remember the good and comfortable things which God had promised them
   for the furture world, and in connection with this there is special
   reference to the time of the Messiah.

   On Deut. xxxii. 30 Siphré (p. 138 a) marks its fulfilment in the days
   of the Messiah.

   On Deut. xxxiii. 5 the Jer. Targum speaks of a king whom the tribes of
   Israel shall obey, this being evidently the King Messiah.

   Deut. xxxiii. 17. Tanchuma on Gen. i. Par. 1 (ed. Warsh. p. 4 a)
   applies this to the Messiah. So also in Benidb. R. 14.

   Deut. xxxiii. 12. The expression, he shall cover him,' is referred to
   this world; all the day long,' to the days of the Messiah; and he shall
   dwell between his shoulders,' to the world to come (Sebach. 118 b).

   Judg. v. 31: let them that love Him be as the sun when he goeth forth
   in his might,' is applied to Messianic times in Ber. R. 12. See our
   remarks on Gen. ii. 4.

   On Ruth ii. 14: come hither at the time of meat,' the Midr. R. Ruth 5
   (ed. Warsh. p. 43 a and b), has a very remarkable interpretation.
   Besides the application of the word eat,' as beyond this present time,
   to the days of the Messiah, and again to the world to come, which is to
   follow these days, the Midrash applies the whole of it mystically to
   the Messiah, viz. Come hither,' that is, draw near to the kingdom, and
   eat of the bread,' that is, the bread of royalty, and dip thy morsel in
   vinegar' - these are the sufferings, as it is written in Is. liii. 5,
   He was wounded for our transgression.' And she sat beside the reapers'
   - because His Kingdom would in the further be put aside from Him for a
   short time, according to Zech. xiv. 2; and he reached her parched corn'
   - because He will restore it to Him, according to Is. xi. 4. R.
   Berachiah, in the name of R. Levi, adds, that the second Redeemer
   should be like the first. As the firrst Redeemer (Moses) appeared, and
   disappeared, and reappeared after three months, so the second Redeemer
   would also appear, and disappear, and again become manifest, Dan. xii.
   11, 12 being brought into connection with it. Comp. Midr. on Cant. ii.
   9; Pesik. 49 a, b. Again, the words, she ate, and was sufficed, and
   left,' are thus interpreted in Shabb. 113 b: she ate - in this world;
   and was sufficed - in the days of the Messiah; and left - for the world
   to come.

   Again, the Targum on Ruth i. 1 speaks of the Messiah; and again on Ruth
   iii. 15 paraphrases the six measures of barley as referring to six
   righteous ones, of which the last was the Messiah, and who were each to
   have six special blessings.

   Ruth iv. 18. The Messiah is called the son of Pharez,' who restores
   what had been lost to humanity through the fall of Adam. See our
   remarks on Gen. ii. 4.

   The Messianic interpretation of Ruth iv. 20 has already been given
   under Gen. iv. 25.

   1 Sam. ii. 10. The latter clause of this promise is understood by the
   Targum (and also is some of the Medrashim) as applying to the Kingdom
   of the Messiah.

   2 Sam. xxii. 28. In a Talmudic passage (Sanh. 98 a, line 19, &c., from
   the bottom), which contains many references to the coming of the
   Messiah, His advent is predicted in connection with this passage.

   2 Sam. xxiii. 1 is applied by the Targum to the prophecy of David
   concerning the latter Messianic days.

   2 Sam. xxiii. 3. The ruling in the fear of God' is referred in the
   Targum to the future raising up of the Messiah.

   In 2 Sam. xxiii. 4 the morning light at sunrise is explained in the
   Midrash on the passage (par. 29, ed. Lemberg, p, 56 b, lines 7-9 from
   the top), as applying to the appearance of the Messiah.

   The expression, 1 Kings iv. 33, that Solomon spoke of trees, is
   referred in theTargum to his prophecy concerning kings that were to
   reign in this age, and in that of the Messiah.

   On the name Anani,' in 1 Chr. iii. 24, the Targum remarks that this is
   the Messiah, the interpretation being that the word anani is connected
   with the word similarly written (not punctuated) in Deut. vii. 13, and
   there translated clouds,' of which the explanation is given in Tanchuma
   (Par. Toledoth 14, p. 27 b).

   Ps. ii. as might be expected, is treated as full of Messianic
   references. To begin with, Ps. ii. 1 is applied to the wars of Gog and
   Magog in the Talmud (Berach. 7 b and Abhod. Zarah 3 b), and also in the
   Midrash on Ps. ii. Similarly, verse 2 is applied to the Messiah in
   Abhod. Zach, u. s., in the Midrash on Ps. xcii. 11 (ed. Warsh. p. 70 b,
   line 8 from the top); in Pirqué de R. Eliez. c. 28 (ed. Lemberg, p. 33
   b, line 9 from top). In Yalkut (vol. ii. par. 620, p. 90 a, line 12
   from the bottom), we have the following remarkable simile on the words,
   against God, and His Messiah,' likening them to a robber who stands
   defiantly behind the palace of the king, and says, If I shall find the
   son of the king, I shall lay hold on him, and crucify him, and kill him
   with a cruel death. But the Holy Spirit mocks at him, He that sitteth
   in the heavens shall laugh.' On the same verse the Midrashon Ps. ii.
   has a curious conceit, intended to show that each who rose against God
   and His people thought he was wiser than he who had preceded him. If
   Cain had killed his brother while his father was alive, forgetful that
   there would be other sons, Esau proposed to wait till after his
   father's death. Pharaoh, again, blamed Esau for his folly in forgetting
   that in the meantime Jacob would have children, and hence proposed to
   kill all the male children, while Haman, ridiculing Pharaoh's folly in
   forgetting that there were daughters set himself to destroy the whole
   people; and, in turn, Gog and Magog, ridiculing the shortsightedness of
   all, who had preceded them, in taking counsel against Israel so long as
   they had a Patron in heaven, resolved first to attack their heavenly
   Patron, and after that Israel. To which apply the words, against the
   Lord, and against His Anointed.'

   But to return Ps. ii. 4 is Messianically applied in the Talmud (Abhod.
   Z. u. s.). Ps. ii. 6 is applied to the Messiah in the Midrash on 1
   Samuel xvi. 1 (Par. 19, ed, Lemberg, p. 45 a and b), where it is said
   that of the three measures of sufferings [6428] one goes to the King
   Messiah, of whom it is written (Is. liii.) He was wounded for our
   trangression.' They say to the King Messiah: Where dost Thou seek to
   dwell? He answers: Is this question also necessary? In Sion My holy
   hill (Ps. ii. 6). (Comp. also Yalkut ii. p. 53 c.)

   Ps. ii. 7 is quoted as Messianic in the Talmud, among a number of other
   Messianic quotations (Sukk. 52 a). There is a very remarkable passage
   in the Midrash on Ps. ii. 7 (ed. Warsh p. 5 a), in which the unity of
   Israel and the Messiah in prophetic vision seems clearly indicated.
   Tracing the decree' through the Law, the Prophets, and the Hagiograph,
   the first passage quoted in Exod. iv 22: Israel is My first-born son;'
   the second, from the Prophets, Is. lii. 13: Behold My servants shall
   deal prudently,' and Is. xlii. 1: Behold My My servant, whom I uphold;'
   the third, from the Hagiographa, Ps. cx. 1: The Lord said unto my
   Lord,' and again, Ps. ii. 7: The Lord said unto Me, Thou art My Son,'
   and yet this other saying (Dan. vii. 13): Behold, one like the Son of
   Man came with the clouds of heaven.' Five lines further down, the same
   Midrash, in reference to the words Thou art My Son,' observes that,
   when that hour comes, God speaks to Him to make a new convenant, and
   thus He speaks: This day have I begotten Thee' - this is the hour in
   which He become His Son.

   Ps. ii. 8 is applied in Ber. R. 44 (ed. Warsh. p. 80 a) and in the
   Midrash on the passage, to the Messiah, with the curious remark that
   there were three of whom it was said Ask of Me' - Solomon, Ahaz, [6429]
   and the Messiah. In the Talmud (Shukk. 52 a) the same passage is very
   curiously applied, it being suggested that, when the Messiah, the Son
   of David, saw that the Messiah, the Son of Joseph, [6430] would be
   killed, He said to the Almighty, I seek nothing of Thee except life. To
   which the reply was: Life before Thou hadst spoken, as David Thy father
   prophesied of Thee, Ps. xxi. 4.

   Ps. ii. 9 will be referred to in our remarks on Ps. cxx.

   Ps. xvi. 5 is discussed in Ber. R. 88, in connection with the cup which
   Pharaoh's butler saw in his dream. From this the Midrash proceeds to
   speak of the four cups appointed for the Passover night, and to explain
   their meaning in various manners, among others, contrasting the four
   cups of fury, which God would make the nations drink, with the four
   cups of salvation which He would give Israel in the latter days, viz.
   Ps. xvi. 5; Ps. cxvi. 13; Ps. xxiii. 5. The expression, Ps. cxvi. 13,
   rendered in our A. V. the cup of salvation,' is in the orginal, the cup
   of salvations' - and is explained as implying on one for the days of
   the Messiah, and the other for the days of Gog.

   On verse 9, the Midrash on the passage says: My glory shall rejoice in
   the King Messiah, Who in the furture shall come forth from me, as it is
   written in Is. iv. 5: "upon all the glory a covering."' And the Midrash
   continues my flesh also shall dwell in safety' - i.e. after death, to
   teach us that corruption and the worm shall not rule over it.

   Ps. xviii. 31 (in the Heb. verse 32). The Targum explains this in
   reference to the works and miracles of the Messiah.

   Ps. xviii. 50 is referred in Jer. Talmud (Ber. ii. 4, p. 5 a, line 11
   from the top), and in the Midr. on Lam. i. 16, to the Messiah, with
   this curious remark, implying the doubt whether He was alive or dead:
   The king Messiah, whether He belong to the living or the dead, His Name
   is to be David, according to Ps. xviii. 50.'

   Ps. xxi. 1 (2 in the Hebrew) - the King there spoken of is explained by
   the Targum to be King Messiah. The Midrash on the passage idenfies him
   with Is. xi. 10, on which Rabbi Chanina adds that the object of the
   Messiah is to give certain commandments to the Gentiles (not to Israel,
   who are to learn from God Himself), according to the passage in Isaiah
   above qutoed, adding that the words his rest shall be glorious' mean
   that God gives to the King Messiah from the glory above, as it is said:
   In Thy strength shall the king rejoice,' which strength is a little
   afterwards explained as the Kingdom (ed. Warsh. p. 30 a and b).

   Verse 3 is Messianically applied in the Midrash on the passage.

   Ps. xxi. 3 (4 in the Hebrew). Only a few lines farther down in the same
   Midrash, among remarkable Messianic applications, is that of this vese
   to the Messiah, where also the expression Jehovah is a man of war,' and
   Jehovah Zidkenu,' are applied to the Messiah. [6431] Comp. also Shemoth
   R. 8, where it is noted that God will crown Him with His own crown.

   Verse 4 is Messianically applied in Sukk. 52 a.

   Ps. xxi. 5 (6 in the Hebrew). The first clause of this verse. Yalkut on
   Num. xxvii. 20 (vol. i. p. 248 a, line 10 from the bottom) applies to
   the glory of the King Messiah, immediately quoting the second clause in
   proof of its Messianic application. This is also done in the Midrash on
   the passage. But perhaps one of the most remarkable applications of it
   is in Bemidbar R. 15, p. 63 b, where the passage is applied to the
   Messiah.

   Finally in Ps. xxi. 7 (8 in the Hebrew), the expression king' is
   applied in the Targum to the Messiah.

   On the whole, then, it may be remarked that Ps. xxi. was throughout
   regarded as Messianic.

   On Ps. xxii. 7 (8 in the Hebrew) a remarkable comment appears in Yalkut
   on Is. lx., applying this passage to the Messiah (the second, or son of
   Ephraim), and using almost the same words in which the Evangelists
   describe the mocking behaviour of the Jews at the Cross.

   Ps. xxii. 15 (16 in the Hebrew). There is a similarly remarkable
   application to the Messiah of this verse in Yalkut.

   The promise in Ps. xxiii. 5 is referred in Benid. R. 21 to the
   spreading of the great feast before Israel in the latter days.

   Ps. xxxi. 19 (20 in the Hebrew) is in the Midrash applied to the reward
   that in the latter days Israel would receive for their faithfulness.
   Also in Pesiqta, p. 149 b, to the joy of Israel in the presence of the
   Messiah.

   The expression in Ps. xxxvi. 9, In Thy light shall we see light,' is
   applied to the Messiah in Yalkut on Isaiah lx. (vol. ii. p. 56 c, line
   22 from the bottom).

   The application of Ps. xl. 7 to the Messiah has already been noted in
   our remarks on Gen. iv. 25.

   Ps. xlv. is throughout regarded as Messianic. To begin with; the Targum
   renders verse 2 (3 in the Hebrew): Thy beauty, O King Messiah, is
   greater than that of the sons of men.'

   Verse 3 (4 in the Hebrew) is applied in the Talmud (Shabb 63 a) to the
   Messiah, although other interpretations of that verse immediately
   follow.

   The application of verse 6 (7 in the Hebrew), to the Messiah in a MS.
   copy of the Targum has already been referred to in another part of his
   book, while the words, Thy throne is for ever and ever' are brought
   into connection with the promise that the sceptre would not depart from
   Judah in Ber. R. 99, ed. Warsh. p. 178 b, line 9 from the bottom.

   On verse 7 the Targum though not in the Venice edition (1568), has:
   Thou O King Messiah because Thou lovest righteousness,' &c. Comp. Levy,
   Targum. Wörterb. vol. ii. p. 41 a.

   The Midrash on the Psalm deals exclusively with the inscription (of
   which it has several and significant interpretations) with the opening
   words of the Psalm, and with the words (ver. 16), Instead of thy
   fathers shall be thy children,' but at the same time it clearly
   indicates that the Psalm applies to the latter, or Messianic, days.

   On Ps. l. 2 Siphré (p. 143 a) notes that four times God would appear,
   the last being in the days of King Messiah.

   Ps. lx. 7. Bemidbar R. on Num. vii. 48, Parash. 14 (ed. Warsh p. 54 a)
   contains some very curious Haggadic discussion on this verse. But it
   also broaches the opinion of its reference to the Messiah.

   Ps. lxi. 6 (7 in the Hebrew). Thou shalt add days to the days of the
   king,' is rendered by the Targum: Thou shalt add days to the days of
   King Messiah.' There is a curious gloss on this in Pirqé d. R. Eliez.
   c. 19 (ed. Lemberg, p. 24 b), in which Adam is supposed to have taken
   70 of his years, and added them to those of King David. According to
   another tradition, this accounts for Adam living 930 years, this is, 70
   less than 1,000, which constitute before God one day, and so the
   threatening had been literally fulfilled: In the day thou eatest
   thereof, thou shalt die.

   Ps. lxi. 8 (9 in the Hebrew). The expression, that I may daily perform
   my vows,' is applied in the Targum to the day in which the Messiah is
   anointed King.

   Ps. lxviii. 31 (32 in the Hebrew). On the words Princes shall come out
   of Egypt,' there is a very remarkable comment in the Talmud (Pes. 118
   b) and in Shemoth R. on Ex. xxvi. 15, &c. (ed. Warsh. p. 50 b), in
   which we are told that in the latter days all nations would bring gifts
   to the King Messiah, beginning with Egypt. And lest it be thought that
   He (Messiah) would not accept it from them, the Holy One says to the
   Messiah: Accept from them hospitable entertainment,' or it might be
   rendered, Accept it from them; they have given hospitable entertainment
   to My son.'

   Ps. lxxii. This Psalm also was viewed by the ancient Synagogue as
   throughout Messianic, as indicated by the fact that the Targum renders
   the very first verse: Give the sentence of Thy judgment to the King
   Messiah, and Thy justice to the Son of David the King,' which is
   re-echoed by the Midrash on the passage (ed. Warsh. p. 55 b) which
   applies it explicitly to the Messiah, with reference to Is. xi. 1.
   Similarly, the Talmud applies ver. 16 to Messianic times (in a very
   hyperbolical passage, Shabb. 30 b, line 4 from the bottom). The last
   clause of verse 16 is applied, in Keth. 111 b, line 21 from top, and
   again in the Midr. on Eccl. i. 9, to the Messiah sending down manna
   like Moses. [6432]

   Verse 17. In Sanh. 98 b; Pes. 54 a; Ned. 39 b, the various names of the
   Messiah are discussed, and also in Ber. R. 1; in Midr. on Lam. i. 16,
   and in Pirqé de R. Eliez. c. 3. One of these is stated to be Jinnon,
   according to Ps. lxxii. 17.

   Verse 8 is applied in Pirqé de R. El. c. 11, to the Messiah. Yalkut
   (vol. ii.).on Is. lv. 8 (p. 54 c), speaks of the other Redeemer' as the
   Messiah, applying to him Ps. lxxii. 8.

   In commenting on the meeting of Jacob and Esau, the Midr. Ber. R. (78,
   ed. Warsh. p. 141 b) remarks that all the gifts which Jacob gave to
   Esau, the nations of the world would return to the King Messiah -
   proving it by a reference to Ps. lxxii. 10; while in Midrash Bemidbar
   R. 13 it is remarked that as the nations brought gifts to Solomon, so
   they would bring them to the King Messiah.

   In the same place, a little higher up, Solomon and the Messiah are
   likened as reigning over the whole world, the proof passages being,
   besides others, Ps. lxxii. 8, Daniel vii. 13, and ii. 35.

   On the application to the Messiah of verse 16 we have already spoken,
   as also on that of verse 17.

   Ps. lxxx. 17 (in the Hebrew 18). The Targum paraphrases the Son of Man'
   by King Messiah.'

   Ps. lxxxix. 22-25 (23-26 in the Hebrew). In Yalkut on Is. lx. 1 (vol.
   ii. p. 56 c) this promise is referred to the future deliverance of
   Israel by the Messiah.

   Again, verse 27 (28 in the Hebrew) is applied in Shemoth R. 19, towards
   the end, to the Messiah, special reference being made to Ex. iv. 22,
   Israel is My first-born son.'

   Verse 51 (52 in the Hebrew). There is a remarkable comment on this in
   the Midrash on the inscription of Ps. xviii. (ed. Warsh. p. 24 a, line
   2 from the bottom), in which it is set forth that as Israel and David
   did not sing till the hour of persecution and reproach, so when the
   Messiah shall come - speedily, in our days' - the song will not be
   raised until the Messiah is put to reproach, according to Ps. lxxxix.
   52 (51), and till there shall fall before Him the wicked idolaters
   referred to in Dan. ii. 42, and the four kingdoms referred to in Zech.
   xiv. 2. In that hour shall the song be raised, as it is written Ps.
   xcviii. 1.

   In the Midr. on Cant. ii. 13 it is said: If you see one generation
   after another blaspheming, expect the feet of the King Messiah, as it
   is written, Ps. lxxxix. 53.

   Ps. xc. 15. The Midr. (ed. Warsh. p. 67 b) remarks: The days wherein
   Thou hast afflicted us - that is, the days of the Messiah. Upon which
   follows a discussion upon the length of days of the Messiah, R. Eliezer
   holding that they are 1,000 years, quoting the words as yesterday,' one
   day being 1,000 years. R. Joshua holds that they were 2,000 years, the
   words the days' implying that there were two days. R. Berachiah holds
   that they were 600 years, appealing to Is. lxv. 22, because the root of
   the tree perishes in the earth in 600 years. R. José thinks that they
   are 60 years, according to Ps. lxxii. 5, the words throughout all
   generations' (dor dorim) being interpreted: Dor = 20 years; Dorim = 40
   years: 20 + 40 = 60. R. Akiba says: 40 years, according to the years in
   the wilderness. The Rabbis say: 354 years, according to the days in the
   lunar year. R. Abahu thinks 7,000 years, reckoning the 7 according to
   the days of the bridegroom.

   On Ps. xc. the Midrash concludes by drawing a contrast between the
   Temple which men built, and which was destroyed, and the Temple of the
   latter or Messianic days, which God would build, and which would not be
   destroyed.

   Ps. xcii., verses 8, 11, and 13 (7, 10, and 12 in our A. V.), are
   Messianically interpreted in Pirqé de R. El. c. 19. In the Midrash on
   verse 13 (12 in our A. V.), among other beautiful applications of the
   figure of the Psalm, is that to the Messiah the Son of David. The note
   of the Midrash on the expression like a cedar of Lebanon,' as applied
   to Israel, is very beautiful, likening it to the cedar, which, although
   driven and bent by all the winds of heaven, cannot be rooted up from
   its place.

   Ps. xcv. 7, last clause. In Shem. R. 25 and in the Midrash on Cant. v.
   2 (ed. Warsh. p. 26 a), it is noted that, if Israel did penitence only
   one day [or else properly observed even one Sabbath], the Messiah the
   Son of David would immediately come. [The whole passage from which this
   reference is taken is exceedingly interesting. It introduces God as
   saying to Israel: My son, open to Me a door of penitence only as small
   as a needle's eye, and I will open to you doors through which carriages
   and wagons shall come in. It almost seems a counterpart to the
   Saviour's words (Rev. iii. 20): Behold, I stand at the door and knock;
   if any man hear My voice and open the door, I will come in to Him.']
   Substantially the same view is taken in Sanh. 98 a, where the tokens of
   the coming of the Messiah are described - and also in Jer. Taan. 64 a.

   Ps. cii. 16 (17 in the Hebrew) is applied in Bereshith R. 56 (ed.
   Warsh. p. 104 b) to Messianic times.

   Ps. cvi. 44. On this there is in the Midrash a long Messianic
   discussion, setting forth the five grounds on which Israel is redeemed:
   through the sorrows of Israel through prayer, through the merits of the
   patriarchs, through repentance towards God, and in the time of the
   end.'

   Ps. cx. is throughout applied to the Messiah. To begin with, it
   evidently underlies the Targumic of ver. 4. Similarly, it is propounded
   in the Midr. on Ps. ii. (although there the chief application of it is
   to Abraham). But in the Midrash on Ps. xviii. 36 (35 in our A. V.), Ps.
   cx. verse 1, Sit thou at My right hand' is specially applied to the
   Messiah, while Abraham is said to be seated at the left.

   Verse 2, The rod of Thy strength.' In a very curious mystic
   interpretation of the pledges which Tamar had, by the Holy Ghost, asked
   of Judah, the seal is interpreted as signifying the Kingdom, the
   bracelet as the Sanhedrin, and the staff as the King Messiah, with
   special reference to Is. xi. and Ps. cx. 2 (Beresh. R. 85, ed. Warsh.
   p. 153 a) Similarly in Bemid. R. 18, last line, the staff of Aaron,
   which is said to have been in the hands of every king till the Temple
   was destroyed, and since then to have been hid, is to be restored to
   King Messiah, according to this verse; and in Yalkut on this Psalm
   (vol. ii. Par. 869, p. 124 c) this staff is supposed to be the same as
   that of Jacob with which he crossed Jordan, and of Judah, and of Moses,
   and of Aaron, and the same which David had in his hand when he slew
   Goliath, it being also the same which will be restored to the Messiah.

   Verse 7 is also applied in Yalkut (u. s. col. d) to Messianic times,
   when streams of the blood of the wicked should flow out, and birds come
   to drink of that flood.

   Ps. cxvi. 9 is in Ber. R. 96 supposed to indicate that the dead of
   Palestine would live first in the days of the Messiah.

   Ps. cxvi. 13 has been already commented upon.

   On Ps. cxix. 33 the Midrash remarks that there were three who asked
   wisdom of God: David, Solomon, and the King Messiah, the latter
   according to Ps. lxxii. 1.

   Ps. cxx. 7 is applied to the Messiah in the Midrash (p. 91 a, ed.
   Warsh.), the first clause being brought into connection with Is. lvii.
   19, with reference to the Messiah's dealings with the Gentiles, the
   resistance being described in the second clause, and the result in Ps.
   ii. 9.

   Ps. cxxi. 1 is applied in Tanchuma (Par. Toledoth 14, ed. Warsh. p. 37
   b. See also Yalkut, vol. ii. 878, p. 127 c) to the Messiah, with
   special reference to Zech. iv. 7 and Is. lii. 7.

   Ps. cxxvi. 2. In Tanchuma on Ex. xv. i. (ed. Warsh. p. 87 a) this verse
   is applied to Messianic times in a rapt description, in which
   successively Is. lx. 5, Is. lviii. 8, Is. xxxv. 5, 6, Jer. xxxi. 13,
   and Ps. cxxvi. 2, are grouped together as all applying to these latter
   days.

   The promise in Ps. cxxxii. 18 is applied in Pirké de R. El. c. 28 to
   Messianic times, and verse 14 in Ber. R. 56.

   So is Ps. cxxxiii. 3 in Ber. R. 65 (p. 122 a), closing lines.

   The words in Ps. cxlii. 5 are applied in Ber. R. 74 to the resurrection
   of Israel in Palestine in the days of Messiah.

   The words, When thou awakest,' in Prov. vi. 22 are Messianically
   applied in Siphré on Deut. (ed. Friedmann, p. 74 b).

   In Midr. on Eccl. i. 9 it is shown at great length that the Messiah
   would re-enact all the miracles of the past.

   The last clause of Eccl. i. 11 is applied to the days of the Messiah in
   the Targum.

   Eccl. vii. 24 is thus paraphrased in the Targum: Behold, it is remote
   from the sons of men that they should know what was done from the
   beginning of the world, but a mystery is the day of death - and the day
   when shall come King Messiah, who can find it out by his wisdom?'

   In the Midr. on Eccl. xi. 8 it is noted that, however many years a man
   might study, his learning would be empty before the teaching of
   Messiah. In the Midr. on Eccl. xii. 1 it is noted that the evil days
   are those of the woes of Messiah.

   Canticles. Here we have first the Talmudic passage (Sheb. 35 b) in
   which the principle is laid down, that whenever throughout that book
   Solomon is named, except in chap. viii. 12, it applies, not to Solomon,
   but to Him Who was His peace (there is here a play on these words, and
   on the name Solomon).

   To Cant. i. 8 the Targum makes this addition: They shall be nourished
   in the captivity, until the time that I shall send to them the King
   Messiah, Who will feed them in quietness.'

   So also on verse 17 the Targum contrasts the Temple built by Solomon
   with the far superior Temple to be built in the days of the Messiah, of
   which the beams were to be made of the cedars of Paradise.

   Cant. ii. 8, although applied by most authorities to Moses, is by
   others referred to the Messiah (Shir haShirim R., ed. Warsh., p. 15 a,
   about the middle; Pesiqta, ed. Buber, p. 47 b). Cant. ii. 9 is
   Messianically applied in Pesiqta, ed. Buber, p. 49, a and b.

   The same may be said of verse 10; while in connection with verse 12, in
   similar application, Is. lii. 7 is quoted.

   In connection with verse 13, in the same Midrash (p. 17 a), Rabbi Chija
   bar Abba speaks of a great matter as happening close to the days of the
   Messiah, viz., that the wicked should be destroyed, quoting in regard
   to it Is. iv. 3.

   Cant. iii. 11, the day of his espousals.' In Yalkut on the passage
   (vol. ii. p. 178 d) this is explained: the day of the Messiah, because
   the Holy One, blessed be His name, is likened to a bridegroom; "as the
   bridegroom rejoiceth over the bride"' - and the day of the gladness of
   his heart,' as the day when the Sanctuary is rebuilt, and Jerusalem is
   redeemed.

   On Cant. iv. 5 the Targum again introduces the twofold Messiah, the one
   the son of David, and the other the son of Ephraim.

   Cant. iv. 16. According to one opinion in the Midrash (p. 25 b, line 13
   from the bottom) this applies to the Messiah, Who comes from the north,
   and builds the Temple, which is in the south. See also Bemidbar R. 13,
   p. 48 b.

   On Cant. v. 10 Yalkut remarks that He is white to Israel, and red to
   the Gentiles, according to Isaiah lxiii. 2.

   On Cant. vi. 10 Yalkut (vol. ii. p. 184 b) has some beautiful
   observations, first, likening Israel in the wilderness, and God's
   mighty deeds there, to the morning;and then adding that, according to
   another view, this morning-light is the redemption of the Messiah: For
   as, when the morning rises, the darkness flees before it, so shall
   darkness fall upon the kingdoms of this world when the Messiah comes.
   And yet again, as the sun and moon appear, so will the Kingdom of the
   Messaih also appear - the commentation going on to trace farther
   illustrations.

   Cant. vii. 6. The Midrash thus comments on it (among other
   explanations): How fair in the world to come, how pleasant in the days
   of the Messiah!

   On Cant. vii. 13, the Targum has it: When it shall please God to
   deliver His people from capitivity, then shall it be said to the
   Messiah: The time of captivity is past, and the merit of the just shall
   be sweet before Me like the odour of balsam.'

   Similarly on Cant. viii.1, the Targum has it: And at that shall the
   King Messiah be revealed to the congragation of Israel, and the
   children of Israel shall say to Him, Come and be a brother to us, and
   let us go up to Jerusalem, and there suck with thee the meaning of the
   Law, as an infant its mother's breast.'

   On Cant. viii. 2 the Targum has it : I will take Thee, O King Messiah,
   and make thee go up into my Temple, there Thou shalt teach me to
   tremble before the Lord, and to walk in His ways. There we shall hold
   the feast of leviathan, and drink the old wine, which has been kept in
   its grapes from the day the world was created, and of the pomegranates
   and of the fruits which are prepared for the just in the Garden of
   Eden.'

   On verse 4 the Targum says: The King Messiah shall say: I adjure you,
   My people, house of Israel, why should you rise against the Gentiles,
   to go out of captivity, and why should you rebel against the might of
   Gog and Magog? Wait a little, till those nations are consumed which go
   up to fight against Jerusalem, and then shall the Lord of the world
   remember you, and it shall be His good will to set you free.'

   Chap. viii. 11 is applied Messianically in the Talmud (Shebhu. 35 b),
   and so is verse 12 in the Targum.

   (It should, however, be remarked that there are many other Messianic
   references in the comments on the Song of Solomon.)

   Is. i. 25, 26, is thus explained in the Talmud (Sanh. 98 a): The Son of
   David shall not come till all the judges and rulers in Israel shall
   have ceased.'

   Similarly Is. ii. 4 is Messianically interpreted in Shabb. 63 a.

   Is. iv. 2 the Targum distinctly applies to the times of the Messiah.

   Is. iv. 4 has been already commented upon in our remarks on Gen. xviii.
   4, 5, and again on Deut. xxiii. 11.

   Verses 5 and 6 are brought into connection with Israel's former service
   in contributing to, and making the Tabernacle in the wilderness, and it
   is remarked that in the latter days God would return it to them by
   covering them with a cloud of glory. This, in Yalkut (vol. i. p. 99 c),
   and in the Midrash on Ps. xiii., as also in that on Ps. xvi. 9.

   Is. vi. 13 is referred in the Talmud (Keth. 112 b) to Messianic times.

   The reference of Is. vii. 21 to Messianic times has already been
   discussed in our notes on Gen. xviii. 7.

   Is. viii.14 is also Messianically applied in the Talmud (Sanh. 38 a).

   Is. ix. 6 is expressly applied to the Messiah in the Targum, and there
   is a very curious comment in Debarim R. 1 (ed. Warsh., p. 4 a) in
   connection with a Haggadic discussion of Gen. xliii. 14, which, however
   fanciful, makes a Messianic application of this passage - also in
   Bemidbar R. 11.

   Verse 7, Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no
   end,' has already been referred to in our comments on Num. vi. 26.

   Is. x. 27 is in the Targum applied to the destruction of the Gentiles
   before the Messiah. Is. x. 34, is quoted in the Midrash on Lam. i. 16,
   in evidence that somehow the birth of the Messiah was to be connected
   with the destruction of the Temple.

   Is. xi., as will readily be believed, is Messianically interpreted in
   Jewish writings. Thus, to begin with in the Targum on verses 1 and 6;
   in the Talmud (Jer. Berach. 5 a and Sanh. 93 b); and in a number of
   passages in the Midrashim. Thus, verse 1 in Bereshith R. 85 on Gen.
   xxxviii. 18, where also Ps. cx. 2 is quoted, and in Ber. R. 99, ed.
   Warsh., p, 178 b. In Yalkut (vol. i. p. 247 d, near the top), where it
   is described how God had shown Moses all the spirits of the rulers and
   prophets in Israel, from that time forward to the Resurrection, it is
   said that all these had one knowledge and one spirit, but that the
   Messiah had one spirit which was equal to all the others put together,
   according to Is. xi. 1.

   On the 2nd verse see our remarks on Gen. i. 2, while in Yalkut on Prov.
   iii. 19, 20 (vol. ii. p. 133 a) the verse is quoted in connection with
   Messianic times, when by wisdom, understanding, and knowledge the
   Temple will be built again. On that verse see also pirq. d. R. El. 3.

   On Is. xi. 3 the Talmud (Sanh. 93 b, lines 21 &c. from the top) has a
   curious explanation. After quoting ch. xi. 2 as Messianic, it makes a
   play on the words, of quick understanding,' or scent,' as it might be
   rendered, and suggest that this word {hebrew} is intended to teach us
   that God has laden Him with commandments and sufferings like millstones
   ({hebrew}). Immediately afterwards, from the expression He shall not
   judge after the sight of His eyes, but reprove with equity for the meek
   of the earth,' it is inferred that the Messiah knew the thoughts of the
   heart, and it is added that, as Bar Kokhabh was unable to do this, he
   was killed.

   Verse 4, he shall smite the earth with the rod of his mouth,' is
   Messianically applied in the Midrash on Ps. ii. 2, and in that on Ruth
   ii. 14 - also in Yalkut on Is. lx.

   Verse 7 has been already noticed in connection with Ex. xii. 2.

   On verse 10 see our remarks on Gen. xlix. 10 and Ps. xxi. 1.

   Verse 11 is Messianically applied in Yalkut (vlo. i. p. 31 b and vol.
   ii. 38 a), as also in the Midrash on Ps. cvii. 2.

   Verse 12 is Messianically applied in that curious passage in the
   Midrash on Lamentations i. 2, where it is indicated that, as the
   children of Israel sinned from {hebrew} to {hebrew}, so God would in
   the latter days comfort them from {hebrew} to {hebrew} (i.e. through
   the whole alphabet), Scripture passages being in each case quoted.

   The Messianic application of Is. xii. 3 is sufficiently established by
   the ancient symbolic practice of pouring out the water on the Feast of
   Tabernacles.

   In connection with Is. xi. 5 the Midrash on Ps. cxviii. 23 first speak
   of the wonderment of the Egyptians when they saw the change in Israel
   from servitude to glory of their Exdous, and then adds, that the words
   were intended by his Holy Ghost to apply to the wonders of the latter
   days (ed. Warsh. p. 85 b).

   On Is. xiv. 2, see our comments on Gen. xviii. 4, 5.

   Is. xiv. 29, xv. 2, xvi. 1, and xvi. 5 are Messianically applied in the
   Targum.

   Is. xviii. 5 is similarly applied in the Talmud (Sanh. 98 a); and Is.
   xxiii. 15 in Sanh. 99 a.

   Is. xxi. 11, 12 is in Jer. Taan. 64 a, and in Shem. R. 18, applied to
   the manifestation of Messiah.

   Is. xxiii. 8 the Midr. on Eccl. i. 7 sees a curious reference to the
   return of this world's wealth to Israel in Messianic days.

   Is. xxiii. 15 is Messianically applied in the Talmud (Sanh 99 a) where
   the expression a king' is explained as referring to the Messiah.

   Is. xxiv. 23 is Messianically applied in the curious passage in
   Bemidbar R. quoted under Gen. xxii. 18; also in Bemidbar R. 13 (ed.
   Warsh. p. 51 a).

   The remarkable promise in Is. xxv. 8 is applied to the times of the
   Messiah in the Talmud (Moed Q. 28 b), and in that most ancient
   commentary Siphra,  (Yalkut i. p. 190 d applies the passage to the
   world to come). But the most remarkable interpretation is that which
   occurs in connection with Is. lx. 1 (Yalkut ii. 56 c, line 16 from the
   bottom), where the passage (Is. xxv. 8) is after an expostulation on
   the part of Satan with regard to the Messiah, applied to the casting
   into Gehenna of Satan and of the Gentiles. See also our remarks on Ex.
   xii. 2. In Debar. R. 2, Isaiah xxv. 8 is applied to the destruction of
   the Jetser ha-Ra and the abolishing of death in Messianic days; in
   Shem. R. 30 to the time of the Messiah.

   Verse 9. Tanchuma on Deuteronomy opens with a record of how God would
   work all the miracles, which He had shown in the wilderness, in a
   fuller manner for Zion in the latter days, the last passage quoted in
   that section being Is. xxv. 9. (Tanchuma on Deut. ed. Warsh. p. 99 a,
   line 5 from the bottom).

   Of Is. xxvi. 19 there is Messianic application in the Midrash on
   Ecclesiates i. 7.

   Of Is. xxvii. 10 Shem. R. 1, and Tanchuma on Exod. ii. 5 (ed. Warsh. p.
   64 b) remark that, like Moses, the Messiah, Who would deliver His own
   from the worshippers of false gods, should be brought up with the
   latter in the land.

   Verse 13 is quoted in the Talmud (Rosh. haSh. 11 b) in connection with
   the future deliverance. So also in Yalkut, i. p. 217 d, and Pirqé de R.
   El. c. 31.

   Is. xxviii. 5 is thus paraphrased in the Targum: At that time shall the
   Messiah of the Lord of hosts be a crown of joy.'

   Is. xxviii. 16 the Targum apparently applies to the Messiah. At least,
   so Rashi (on the passage) understands it.

   Is. xxx. 18 is Messianically applied in Sanh 97 b; verse 15 Jer. Taan.
   i. 1.

   The expression in Is. xxx. 19, he shall be very gracious unto thee,' is
   applied to the merits of the Messiah in Yalkut on Zeph. iii. 8 (p. 84
   c).

   On verse 25 see our remarks on Gen. xviii. 4.

   Verse 26 is applied to Messianic times in the Talmud (Pes. 68 a, and
   Sanh. 91 b), and similarly in Pirqé de R. El. 51, and Shemoth R. 50. So
   also in Ber. R. 12. see our remarkes on Gen. ii. 4.

   Is. xxxii. 14, 15. On this passage the Midrash of Lam. iii. 49
   significantly remarks that it is one of the three passage in which
   mention of the Holy Ghost follows upon mention of redemption, the other
   two passages being Is. 22, followed by lxi. 1, and Lam. iii. 49.

   Is. xxxii. 20. The first clause is explained by Tanchuma (Par. 1. ed.
   Warsh. p. 4 a, first three lines) to apply to the study of the Law, and
   the second to the two Messiahs, the son of Joseph being likened to the
   ox, and the son of David to the ass, accordingly to Zech. ix. 9; and
   similary the verse is Messianically referred to in Deb. R. 6 (ed.
   Warsh. Vol. iii. p. 15 b), in a very curious play on the words in Deut.
   xxii. 6, 7, where the observance of that commandment is supposed to
   hasten the coming of King Messiah.

   Is. xxxv. 1. This is one of the passages quoted in Tanchuma on Deut. i.
   1. (ed.Warsh. p. 99 a) as among the miracles which God would do to
   redeem Zion in the latter days. So also is verse 2 in this chapter.

   Is. xxxv. 5, 6 is repeatedly applied to Messianic times. Thus, in
   Yalkut i. 78 c, and 157 a; in Ber. R. 95; and in Midrash on Ps. cxlvi.
   8.

   Verse 10 is equally applied to Messianic times in the Midrash on Ps.
   cvii. 1, while at the same time it is noted that this deliverance will
   be accomplished by God Himself, and not either by Elijah, nor by the
   King Messiah. [6433] A similar reference occurs in Yalkut (vol. ii. p.
   162 d), at the close of the Commentary on the Book of Chronicles, where
   it is remarked that in this world the deliverance of Israel was
   accomplished by man, and was followed by fresh captivities, but in the
   latter or Messianic days their deliverance would be accomplished by
   God, and would no more be followed by captivity. See also Shemoth R. 15
   and 23.

   Is. xl. 1 is one of the passages referred to in our note on Is. xi. 12,
   and also on Is. xxxv. 1.

   The same remark applies to verses 2 and 3.

   Verse 5 is also Messianically applied in Vayyikra R. 1; Yalk. ii. 77 b
   about the middle.

   On verse 10 Yalkut, in discussing Ex. xxxii. 6 (vol. i. p. 108 c)
   broaches the opinion, that in the days of the Messiah Israel would have
   a double reward, on account of the calamities which they had suffered,
   quoting Is. xl. 10.

   Is. xli. 18 has been already noted in our remarks on Gen. xviii. 4, 5.

   Verse 25 is Messianically applied in Bem. R. 13, p. 48 b.

   The expression The first,' in ch. xli. 27, is generally applied to the
   Messiah; in the Targum, according to Rashi; in Bereshith R. 63; in
   Vayyikra R. 30; and in the Talmud (Pes. 5 a); so also in Pesiqta (ed.
   Buber) p. 185 b.

   Is. xlii. 1 is applied in the Targum to the Messiah, as also in the
   Midrash or Ps. ii.; and in Yalkut ii. p. 104 d. See also our comments
   on Ps. ii. 7.

   On Is. xliii. 10, the Targum renders My servant' by My servant the
   Messiah.'

   The promise in Is. xlv. 22 is also among the future things mentioned in
   the Midrash on Lamentations, to which we have referred in our remarks
   on Is. xi. 12.

   Is. xlix. 8. There is a remarkable comment on this in Yalkut on the
   passage, to the effect that the Messiah suffers in every age for the
   sins of that generation, but that God would in the day of redemption
   repair it all (Yalk. ii. p. 52 b).

   Is. xlix. 9 is quoted as the words of the Messiah in Yalkut (vol. ii.
   p. 52 b).

   Verse 10 is one of the passages referred to in the Midrash on
   Lamentations, quoted in connection with Is. xi. 12.

   Verse 12 has already been noticed in our remarked on Ex. xii. 2.

   From the expression comfort' in verse 13, the Messianic title Menachem'
   is derived. Comp. the Midrash on Prov. xix. 21.

   Verse 14 is Messianically applied in Yalkut ii. p. 52 c.

   Verse 21 is also one of the passages referred to in the Midrash of
   Lamentations, quoted under Ps. xi. 12.

   On verse 23 it is remarked in Vayyikra R. 27 (ed. Warsh. p. 42 a), that
   Messianic blessings were generally prefigured by similar events, as for
   example, the passage here quoted in the case of Nebuchadnezzar and
   Daniel.

   A Messianic application of the same passsage also occurs in Par. 33 and
   36, as a contrast to the contempt that Israel experiences in this
   world.

   The second clause of verse 23 is applied to the Messiah in the Midrash
   on Ps. ii. 2, as to be fulfilled when the Gentiles shall see the
   terrible judgements.

   Verse 26 is similarly applied to the destruction of the Gentiles in
   Vayyikra R.33 (end).

   Is. li. 12 is one of the passages referred to in the Midrash of
   Lamentations, quoted in our comments in Is. xi. 12.

   Is. li. 12 and 17 are among the passages referred to in our remarks on
   Is. xxv.9

   Is. lii. 3 is Messianically applied in the Talmud (Sanh. 97 b), while
   the last clause of verse 2 is one of the passages quoted in the Midrash
   on Lamentations (see Is. xi. 12).

   The well-known Evangelic declaration in Is. lii. 7 is thus commented
   upon in Yalkut (vol. ii. p. 53 c): In the hour when the Holy One,
   blessed be His Name, redeems Israel, three days before Messiah comes
   Elijah, and stands upon the mountains of Israel, and weeps and mourns
   for them, and says to them: Behold the land of Israel, how long shall
   you stand in a dry and desolate land? And his voice is heard from the
   world's end to the world's end, and after that it is said to them:
   Peace has come to the world, peace has come to the world, as it is
   said: How beautiful upon the mountains, &c. And when the wicked hear
   it, they rejoice, and they say one to the other: Peace has come to us.
   On the second day he shall stand upon the mountains of Israel, and
   shall say: Good has come to the world, good has come to the world, as
   it is written: That bringeth good tidings of good. On the third day he
   shall come and stand upon the mountains of Israel, and say: Salvation
   has come to the world, salvation has come to the world, as it is
   written: That publisheth salvation.

   Similarly, this passage is quoted in Yalkut on Ps. cxxi. 1. See also
   our remarks on Cant. ii. 13.

   Verse 8 is one of the passages referred to in the Midrash on
   Lamentations quoted above, and frequently in other places as Messianic.

   Verse 12 is Messianically applied in Shemoth R. 15 and 19.

   Verse 13 is applied in the Targum expressly to the Messiah. On the
   words He shall be exalted and extolled' we read in Yalkut ii. (Par.
   338, p. 53 c, lines 7 &c. from the bottom): He shall be higher than
   Abraham, to whom applies Gen. xiv. 22; higher than Moses, of whom Num.
   xi. 12 is predicated; higher than the ministering angels, of whom Ezek.
   i. 18 is said. But to Him there applies this in Zech. iv. 7: Who art
   thou, O great mountain?' And He was wounded for our transgressions, and
   bruised for our iniquities, and the chastisement of our peace was upon
   Him, and with His stripes we are healed.' R. Huma says, in the name of
   R. Acha: All sufferings are divided into three parts; one part goes to
   David and the Patriarchs, another to the generation of the rebellion
   (rebellious Israel), and the third to the King Messiah, as it is
   written (Ps. ii. 7), Yet have I set My King upon My holy hill of Zion.'
   Then follows a curious quotation from the Midrash on Samuel, in which
   the Messiah indicates that His dwelling is on Mount Zion, and that
   guilt is connected with the destruction of its walls.

   In regard to Is. liii. we remember, that the Messianic name of Leprous'
   (Sanh. 98 b) is expressly based upon it. Is. liii. 10 is applied in the
   Targum on the passage to the Kingdom of the Messiah.

   Verse 5 is Messianically interpreted in the Midrash on Samuel (ed.
   Lemberg, p. 45 a, last line), where it is said that all sufferings are
   divided into three parts, one of which the Messiah bore - a remark
   which is brought into connection with Ruth ii. 14. (See our comments on
   that passage.)

   Is. liv. 2 is expected to be fulfulled in Messianic times (Vayyikra R.
   10).

   Is. liv. 5. In Shemoth R. 15 this is expressly applied to Messianic
   days.

   Is. liv. 11 is repeatedly applied to the Messianic glory, as, for
   example, in Shemoth R. 15. (See our comments on Ex. xii. 2.)

   So is verse 13, as in Yalkut (vol. i. 78 c); in the Midrash on Ps. xxi.
   1; and in other passages.

   Is. lv. 12 is referred to Messianic times, as in the Midrash on Ps.
   xiii.

   Is. lvi. 1. See our comments on Exod. xxi. 1.

   Verse 7 is one of the passages in the Midrash on Lamentations which we
   have quoted under Is. xi. 12.

   On Is. lvii. 14 Bemidhar R. 15 (ed. Warsh. p. 64 a) expresses a curious
   idea about the stumbling-block, as mystically the evil inclination, and
   adds that the promise applies to God's removal of it in the world to
   come, or else it may be in Messianic days.

   Verse 16 receives in the Talmud (Yeb. 62 a and 63 b) and in the Midr.
   on Exxl. i. 6 the following curious comment: The Son of David shall not
   come till all the souls are completed which are in the Guph' - (i.e.
   the pre-existence of souls is taught, and that they are kept in heaven
   till one after another appears in human form, and that the Messiah is
   kept back till all these shall have appeared), proof of this being
   derived from Is. lvii. 16.

   Similarly chap. lix. 15 is applied to Messianic times in Sanh. 97 a,
   and Midr. on Cant. ii. 13; and verse 19 in Sanh. 98 a.

   Verse 17 is applied to Messianic times in Pesiqta, ed. Buber, p. 149 a.

   Verse 20 is one of the passages mentioned in the Midrash on
   Lamentations quoted above. (See Is. xi. 12.)

   Is. lix. 19, 20, is applied to Messianic times in Sanh. 98 a. In
   Pesiqta 166 b it is similarly applied, the peculiar form (plene) in
   which the word Goel (Redeemer) is written being taken to indicate the
   Messiah as the Redeemer in the full sense.

   Is. lx. 1. This is applied in the Targum to Messianic times. Similarly,
   it is explained in Ber. R. i. with reference to Dan. ii. 2; in Ber. R.
   2; and also in Bemidbar R. 15 and 21. In Yalkut we have some very
   interesting remarks on the subject. Thus (vol. i. Par. 363, p. 99 c),
   commenting on Exod xxv. 3 &c., in a very curious description of how God
   would in the world to come return to Israel the various things which
   they had offered for the Tabernacle, the oil is brought into connection
   with the Messiah, with reference to Ps. cxxxii. 17 and Is. lx. 1.
   Again, on p. 215 c (at the commencement of the Parashah Behaalothekha)
   we have, first, a very curious comparison between the work of the
   Tabernacle and that of the six days of Creation, after which the
   question is put: Why Moses made seven lights, and Solomon seventy? To
   this the reply is given, that Moses rooted up seven nations before
   Israel, while Solomon reigned over all the seventy nations which,
   according to Jewish ideas, constitute the world. Upon this it is added,
   that God had promised, that as Israel had lighted for His glory the
   lights in theSanctuary, so would He in the latter days fill Jerusalem
   with His glory, according to the promise in Is. lx. 1, and also set up
   in the midst of it lights, according to Zeph. i. 12. Still more clearly
   is the Messianic interpretation of Is. lx. brought out in the comments
   in Yalkut on that chapter. One part of it is so curious that it may
   here find a place. After explaining that this light for which Israel is
   looking is the light of the Messiah, and that Gen. i. 4 really referred
   to it, it is added that this is intended to teach us that God looked
   forward to the age of the Messiah and His works before the Creation of
   the world, and that He hid that light for the Messiah and His
   generation under His throne of glory. On Satan's questioning Him for
   whom that light was destined, the answer is: For Him Who in the latter
   days will conquer thee, and cover thy face with shame. On which Satan
   requests to see Him, and when he is shown Him, falls on his face and
   says: I confess that this is the Messiah Who will in the latter days be
   able to cast me, and all the Gentiles, into Gehenna, according to Is.
   xxv. 8. In that hour all the nations will tremble, and say befire God:
   Who is this into Whose hand we fall, what is His Name, and what is His
   purpose? On which God replies: This is Ephraim, the Messiah [the second
   Messiah, the son of Joseph]; My Righteousness is His Name.' And so the
   commentation goes on to touch on Ps. lxxxix. 23, 24, and 26, in a
   manner most deeply interesting, but which it would be impossible here
   fully to give (Yalkut, vol. ii. Par. 359, p. 56 c). In col. d there are
   farther remarkable discussions about the Messiah, in connection with
   the wars in the days when Messiah should be revealed, and about
   Israel's final safety. But the most remarkable passage of all,
   reminding us almost of the history of the Temptation, is that which
   reads as follows (line 22 &c. from the top): It is a tradition from our
   Rabbis that, in the hour when King Messiah comes, He stands on the roof
   of the Temple, and proclaims to them, that the hour of their
   deliverance has come, and that if they believed they would rejoice in
   the light that had risen upon them, as it is written (Is. lx. 1),
   Arise, shine, for thy light is come.' This light would be for them
   alone, as it is written (ver. 2), For darkness shall cover the earth.'
   In that hour also would God take the light of the Messiah and of
   Israel, and all should walk in the light of Messiah and of Israel, as
   it is written (ver. 3), The Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kings
   to the brightness of thy rising.' And the kings of the nations should
   lick the dust from under the feet of the Messiah, and should all fall
   on their faces before Him and before Israel, and say: Let us be
   servants to Thee and to Israel. And so the passage goes on to describe
   the glory of the latter days. Indeed, the whole of this chapter may be
   said to be full of Messianic interpretations.

   After this it will scarecely be necessary to say that verses 2, 3, and
   4 are similarly applied in the Midrashim. But it is interesting to
   notice that verse 2 is specifically applied to Messianic times in the
   Talmud (Sanh. 99 a), in answer to the question when the Messiah should
   come.

   On verse 4 the Midrash on Cant. i. 4, on the words we will be glad and
   rejoice in thee,' has the following beautiful illustration. A Queen is
   introduced whose husband and sons and sons-in-law go to a distant
   country. Tidings are brought to her: Thy sons are come back. On which
   she says: Cause for gladness have I, my daughters-in-law will rejoice.
   Next, tidings are brought her that her sons-in-law are coming, and she
   is glad that her daughters will rejoice. Lastly, tidings are brought:
   The king, thy husband, comes. On which she replies: This is indeed
   perfect joy, joy unpon joy. So in the latter days would the prophets
   come, and say to Jerusalem: Thy sons shall come from far' (verse 4),
   and she will say: What gladness is this to me! - and thy daughters
   shall be nursed at thy side,' and again she will say: What gladness is
   this to me! But when they shall say to her (Zech. ix. 9): Behold, thy
   king cometh unto thee; he is just, and having salvation,' then shall
   Zion say: This indeed is perfect joy, as it is written (Zech. ix. 9),
   Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion,' and again (Zech. ii. 10), Sing
   and rejoice, O daughter of Zion.' In that hour she will say (Is. lxi.
   10): I will greatly rejoice in the Lord, my soul shall be joyful in my
   God.'

   Verse 7 is Messianically applied in the Talmud (Abod. Sar. 24 a).

   Verse 8 is Messianically applied in the Midrash on Ps. xlvii. 13.

   In connection with verse 19 we read in Yalkut (vol. i. p. 103 b) that
   God said to Israel: In this world you are engaged (or busied) with the
   light for the Sanctuary, but in the world to come, for the merit of
   this light, I send you the King Messiah, Who is likened to a light,
   according to Ps. cxxxii. 17 and Is. lx. 19, the Lord shall be unto thee
   an everlasting light.'

   Verse 21 is thus alluded to in the Talmud (Sanh. 98 a): Rabbi Jochanan
   said, The Son of David shall not come, until all be either just or all
   be unjust:' the former according to Is. lx. 21, the latter according to
   Is. lix. 16.

   Verse 22 is also Messianically applied in the Talmudic passage above
   cited.

   Is. lxi. 1 has already been mentioned in our remarks on Is. xxxii. 14,
   15.

   On verse 5 there is a curious story related (Yalkut, vol. i. Par. 212,
   p. 64 a, lines 23-17 from the bottom) in which, in answer to a
   question, what was to become of the nations in the days of the Messiah,
   the reply is given that every nation and kingdom that had persecuted
   and mocked Israel would see, and be confounded, and have no share in
   life; but that every nation and kingdom which had not so dealt with
   Israel would come and be husbandmen and vinedressers to Israel in the
   days of the Messiah. A similar statement to this is found in the
   Midrash on Eccl. ii. 7.

   Verse 9 is also applied to Messianic times.

   Verse 10 is one of the passages referred to in Tanchuma on Deut. i. 1
   quoted under Is. xxv. 9. In Pesiqta, ed. Buber, p. 149 a, the verse is
   explained as applying to the glory of Messiah's appearance.

   Is. lxii. 10 has already been referred to in our remarks on Is. lvii.
   14.

   Is. lxiii. is applied to the Messiah, Who comes to the land after
   having seen the destruction of the Gentiles, in Pirqé de R. Eliez. c.
   30.

   Verse 2 has been referred to in our comments on Cant. v. 10. It is also
   quoted in reference to Messianic days in Pesiqta, ed. Buber, p. 149 a.

   Verse 4 is explained as pointing to the days of the Messiah, which are
   supposed to be 365 years, according to the number of the solar days
   (Sanh. 99 a); while in other passages of the Midrashim, the destruction
   of Rome and the coming of the Messiah are conjoined with the day of
   vengeance. See also the Midr. on Eccl. xii. 10.

   Is. lxiv. 4 (3 in the Hebrew). In Yalkut on Is. lx. (vol. ii. p. 56 d,
   line 6, &c., from the bottom) Messianic application is made of this
   passage in a legendary account of the seven tabernacles which God would
   make for the Messiah, out of each of which proceed four streams of
   wine, milk, honey, and pure balsam. Then God is represented as speaking
   of the sufferings which Messiah was to undergo, after which the verse
   in question is quoted.

   Is. lxv. 17 is quouted in the Midrash on Lamentations, referred to in
   our remarks on Is. xi. 12.

   Verse 19 is one of the passages referred to in Tanchuma on Deut. i. 1.
   See Isaiah xxv. 9.

   To verse 25 we have the following curious illustrative reference in
   Ber. R. 20 (ed. Warsh. p. 38 b, line 6 from the bottom) in connection
   with the Fall: In the latter days everything shall be healed again
   (restored again) except the serpent (Is. lxv. 25) and the Gibeonites
   (Ezek. xlviii. 19). But a still more strange application of the verse
   occurs in the same Midrash (Par. 95, ed. Warsh. p. 170 a), where the
   opening clauses of it are quoted with this remark: Come and see all
   that the Holy One, blessed be His Name, has smitten in this world, He
   will heal in the latter days. Upon which a curious disquisition
   follows, to prove that every man would appear after death exactly as he
   had been in life, whether blind, dumb, or halting, nay, even in the
   same dress, as in the case of Samuel when Saul saw him - but that
   afterwards God would heal the diseased.

   Is. lxvi. 7 is applied to Messianic times in Vayyikra R. 14 (last
   line), and so are some of the following verses in the Midrashim,
   notably on Gen. xxxiii. 1.

   Is. lxviii. 22 is applied to Messianic times in Ber. R. 12. See our
   remarks on Gen. ii. 4.

   Jer. iii. 17 is applied to Messianic days in Yalkut on Joshua iii. 9
   &c. (vol. ii. p. 3 c, line 17 from the top), and so is verse 18 in the
   commentation on the words in Cant. i. 16 our bed is green,' the
   expression being understood of the ten tribes, who had been led captive
   beyond the river Sabbayon; but when Judah's deliverance came, Judah and
   Benjamin would go to them and bring them back, that they might be
   worthly of the days of the Messiah (vol. ii. p., 176 d, line 9 &c. from
   the bottom).

   Jer. v. 19 is mentioned in the Introd. to Echa R. as one of three
   passages by which to infer from the apostasy of Israel the near advent
   of Messiah.

   The expression speckled bird' in Jer. xii. 9 is applied to the Messiah
   in Pirqé de R. Eliez. c. 28.

   The last word in Jer. xvi. 13 is made the basis of the name Chaninah,
   given to the Messiah in the Talmud (Sanh. 98 b), and in the Midr. on
   Lam. i. 16.

   On verse 14 Mechilta has it, that in the latter days the Exodus would
   no more be mentioned on account of the greater wonders then
   experienced.

   On Jer. xxiii. 5, 6, the Targum has it: And I will raise up for David
   the Messiah the Just.' This is one of the passages from which according
   to Rabbinic views, one of the Names of the Messiah is derived, viz:
   Jehovah our Righteousness. So in the Talmud (Babba Bathra 75 b), in the
   Midrash on Ps. xxi. 1, Prov. xix. 21, and in that on Lamentations i.
   16.

   On verse 7 see our remarks on Jer. xvi 14. In the Talmud (Ber. 12 b)
   this verse is distinctly applied to Messianic days. Jer. xxx. 9 is
   Messianically applied in the Targum on the passage.

   Jer. xxx. 21 is applied to the Messiah in the Targum, and also in the
   Midrash on Ps. xxi. 7.

   On Jer. xxxi. 8, 3rd clause, Yalkut has a Messianic interpretation,
   although extremely far-fetched. In general, the following verses are
   Messianically interpreted in the Midrashim.

   Verse 20 is Messianically applied in Yalkut (ii. p. 66 c, end), where
   it is supposed to refer to the Messiah when imprisoned, when all the
   nations mock and shake their heads at Him. A more remarkable
   interpretation still occurs in the passage on Is. lx. 1, to which we
   have already referred. Some farther extracts from it may be
   interesting. Thus, when the enemies of the Messiah flee before Him. God
   is supposed to make an agreement with the Messiah to this effect: The
   sins of those who are hidden with Thee will cause Thee to be put under
   an iron yoke, and they will do with Thee as with this calf, whose eyes
   are covered, and they will choke Thy spirit under the yoke, and on
   account of their sins Thy tongue shall cleave to Thy mouth. On which
   the Messiah inquires whether these troubles are to last for many years,
   and the Holy replies that He has decreed a week, but that if His soul
   were in sorrow, He would immediately dispel these sorrows. On this the
   Messiah says: Lord of the world, with gladness and joy of heart I take
   it upon Me, on condition that not one of Israel should perish, and that
   not only those alone should be saved who are in My days, but also those
   who are hid in the dust; and that not only the dead should be saved who
   are in My days, but also those who have died from the days of the first
   Adam till now; and not those, but also those who have been prematurely
   born. And only these, but also those who have come into Thy knowledge
   to create them, but have not yet been created. Thus I agree, and thus I
   take all upon Me. In the hebdomad when the Son of David comes, they
   shall bring beams of iron, and shall make them a yoke to His neck,
   until His stature is bent down. But He cries and weeps, and lifts up
   His voice on high, and says before Him: Lord of the world, what is My
   strength, My spirit, and My soul, and My members? Am I not flesh and
   blood? In that honor David (the Son of David) weeps, and says: My
   strength is dried up like a potsherd.' In that hour the Holy One,
   blessed be His Name, says: Ephraim the Messiah, My righteous one, Thou
   hast already taken this upon Thee before the six days of the world, now
   Thy anguish shall be like My anguish; for from the time that
   Nebuchadnezzar, the wicked one, has come up and destroyed My house, and
   burned My Sancturary, and I have sent into captivity My children among
   the children of the Gentiles, by My life, and by the life of Thy head,
   I have not sat down on My throne. And if Thou wilt not believe Me, see
   the dew which is on My head, as it is said (Cant. v. 2) My head is
   filled with dew.' In that hour the Messiah answers Him: Lord of the
   world, now I am quieted, for it is enough for the servant that he is as
   his Master (his reminding us of our Lord's saying, St. Matt. x. 25 ).
   R. Isaac then remarks that in the year when the King Messiah shall be
   revealed, all nations shall rise up against each other (we have already
   quoted this passage in another place, as also that about the Messiah
   standing upon the roof of the Temple). Then follows this as a tradition
   of the Rabbis: In the latter days the Fathers shall stand up in the
   month of Nisan, and say to Him: Ephraim, the Messiah, our
   Righteousness, though we are Thy Fathers, yet Thou art better than we,
   because Thou hast borne all the sins of our sons, and hard and evil
   measure has passed upon Thee, such as has not been passed either upon
   those before or upon those after. And Thou hast been for laughter and
   derision to the nations for the sake of Israel, and Thou hast dwelt in
   darkness and in mist, and Thine eyes have not seen light, and Thy light
   clung to Thee alone, and Thy body was dried up like wood, and Thine
   eyes were darkened through fasting, and Thy strength was dried up like
   a postsherd. And all this on account of the sins of our children. Is it
   Thy pleasure that our sons should enjoy the good thing which Godhad
   displayed to Israel? Or perhaps on account of the anguish which Thou
   hast suffered for them, because they have bound Thee in the
   prison-house, wilt Thou not give unto them thereof? He says to them:
   Fathers of the world, whatever I have done I have done for your sakes,
   and for the sake of your children, that they may enjoy that goodness
   which the Holy One, blessed be He, has displayed to Israel. Then say to
   Him the Fathers of the world: Ephraim, Messiah, our Righteousness, be
   Thou reconciled to us, because Thou hast reconciled They Maker and us.
   R. Simeon, the son of Pasi, In that hour the Holy One, blessed be His
   Name, exalts the Messiah to the heaven of heavens, and spreads over Him
   the splendour of His glory, because of the nations of the world, and
   becauseof the wicked Persians. Then the Fathers of the world say to
   Him: Ephraim, Messiah, our Righteousness, be Thou their judge, and do
   to them what Thy soul desireth. For unless mercies had been multipled
   on Thee, they would long ago have exterminated Thee suddenly from the
   world, as it is written (Jer. xxxi. 20) Is Ephraim my dear son?' And
   why is the expression: I will surely have mercy' [in the Hebrew
   reduplicated: having mercy I will have mercy'], but that the first
   expression mercy' refers to the hour when He was bound in prison, when
   day by day they gnashed with their teeth, and winked with their eyes,
   and nodded with their heads, and wide-opened their mouths, as it is
   written in Ps. xxii. 7 [8 in Hebrew]; while the second expression I
   will have mercy' refers to the hour when He came out of the
   prison-house, when not only one kingdom, not two, came against Him, but
   140 kingdoms came round about Him, and the Holy One, blessed be His
   Name, says to Him: Ephraim, Messiah, My righteous one, be not afraid,
   for all these shall perish by the breath of Thy mouth, as it is written
   (Is. xi. 4). Long as this quotation may be, its interest seems
   sufficient to warrant its insertion.

   Jer. xxxi. 31, 33, and 34 are applied to Messianic times in Yalkut
   (vol. i. p. 196 c; 78 c; and in vol. ii. p. 54 b, and p. 66 d).

   Jer. xxxiii. 13. The close of the verse is thus paraphrased in the
   Targum: The people shall yet learn by the hands of the Messiah,' while
   in Yalkut (vol. i. p.105 d) mention is made of a tenfold gathering of
   Israel, the last - in connection with this verse - in the latter days.

   On Lam. i. 16 there is in the Midrash R. (ed. Warsh. p. 64 b) the
   curious story about the birth of the Messiah in the royal palace of
   Bethlehem, which also occurs in the Jer. Talmud.

   Lam. ii. 22, first clause. The Targum here remarks: Thou wilt proclaim
   liberty to Thy people, the house of Israel, by the hand of the Messiah.

   Lam. iv. 22, first clause. The Targum here remarks: And after these
   things thy iniquity shall cease, and thou shalt be set free by the
   hands of the Messiah and by the hands of Elijah the Priest

   Ezek xi. 19 is applied to the great spiritual change that was to take
   place in Messianic days, when the evil desire would be taken out of the
   heart (Deb. R. 6, at the end; and also in other Midrashic passages).

   Ezek. xvi. 55 is referred to among the ten things which God would renew
   in Messianic days - the rebuilding of ruined cities, inclusive of Sodom
   and Gomorrah, being the fourth (Shem. R. 15, ed. Warsh. p. 24 b).

   Ezek xvii. 22 and 23 is distinctly and very beautifully referred to the
   Messiah in the Targum.

   Ezek. xxv. 14 is applied to the destruction of all the nations by
   Israel in the days of the Messiah in Bemidbar R. on Num. ii. 32 (Par.
   2, ed. Warsh. p. 5 b).

   Ezek. xxix. 21 is among the passages applied to the time when the
   Messiah should come, in Sanh. 98 a.

   So is Ezek. xxxii. 14.

   Ezek xxxvi. 25 is applied to Messianic times alike in the Targum and in
   Yalkut (vol. i. p. 235 a), as our in the Talmud (Kidd. 72 b).

   On verse 27 see our remarks on chap. xi. 19.

   Ezek. xxxix. 2 is Messianically applied in Bemidbar R. 13, Warsh. p. 48
   b.

   Ezek. xlvii. 9 and 12 are quoted as the second and the third things
   which God would renew in the latter days (Shem. R. 15) - the second
   being, that living waters should go forth out of Jerusalem, and the
   third, that trees should bear fruit every month, and the sick be healed
   by them.

   On Ezek. xlviii. 19 the Talmud (Baba B. 122 a) has the following
   curious comment, that the land of Israel would be divided into
   thirteenth tribes, the thirteenth belonging to the Prince, and this
   verse is quoted as proof.

   Dan. ii. 22 is Messianically applied in Ber. R. 1, and in the Midr. on
   Lament. i. 16, where it gives rise to another name of the Messiah: the
   Lightgiver.

   Verse 35 is similarly applied in the Pirqé de R. Eliez. c. 11, and
   verse 44 in c. 30.

   Dan. vii. 9. This passage was interpreted by R. Akiba as implying that
   one throne was set for God, and the other for the Messiah (Chag. 14 a).

   Dan. vii. 13 is curiously explained in the Talmud (Sanh. 98 a), where
   it is said that, if Israel behaved worthily, the Messiah would come in
   the clouds of heaven; if otherwise, humble, and riding upon an ass.

   Dan. vii. 27 is applied to Messianic times in Bem. R. 11.

   Dan. viii. 13, 14. By a very curious combination these verses are
   brought into connection with Gen. iii. 22 (man has become like one of
   us'), and it is argued, that in Messianic days man's primeval innocence
   and glory would be restored to him, and he become like one of the
   heavenly beings, Ber. R. 21 (ed. Warsh. p. 41 a).

   Dan. ix. 24. In Naz. 32 b it is noted as that referred to the time when
   the second Temple was to be destroyed. So also in Yalkut, vol. ii. p.
   79 d, lines 16&c. from the bottom.

   Dan. xii. 3 is applied to Messianic times in a beautiful passage in
   Shem. R. 15 (at the end).

   Dan. xii. 11, 12. These two verses receive a peculiar Messianic
   interpretation, and that by the authority of the Rabbis. For it is
   argued that, as Moses, the first Redeemer, appeared, and was withdrawn
   for a time, and then reappeared, so would the second Redeemer; and the
   interval between His disappearance and reappearance is calculated at 45
   days, arrived at by deducting the 1,290 days of the cessation of the
   sacrifice (Dan. xii. 11) from the 1,335 days of Dan. xii. 12 (Midr. on
   Ruth ii. 14, ed. Warsh. p. 43 b).

   Hos. ii. 2 is explained in the Midr. on Ps. xlv. 1 as implying that
   Israel's redemption would be when they were at the lowest.

   Hos. ii. 13 is one of the three passages referred to on Jer. v. 19.

   Hos. ii. 18 is quoted in Shem. R. 15 (on Ex. xii. 2) as the seventh of
   the ten things which God would make new in Messianic days.

   Hos. iii. 5 is applied to the Messiah in the Targum, and from it the
   Jer. Talm.(Ber. 5 a) derives the name David as one of those given to
   the Messiah.

   Hos. vi. 2 is Messianically applied in the Targum.

   Hos. xiii. 14 is applied to the deliverance by the Messiah of those of
   Israel who are in Gehinnom, whom He sets free; - the term Zion being
   understood of Paradise. See Yalk. on Is. Par. 269, comp. Maas. de R.
   Joshua in Jellinek's Beth ha-Midr. ii. p. 50.

   Hos. xiv. 7 is Messianically applied in the Targum.

   Joel ii. 28 is explained in the Midrashim as referring to the latter
   days, when all Israel will be prophets (Bemidbar R. 15; Yalkut i. p.
   220 c, and other places).

   Joel iii. 18 is similarly applied in the Midrashim, as in that on Ps.
   xiii. and in others. The last clause of this verse is explained in the
   Midr. on Eccl. i. 9 to imply that the Messiah would cause a fountain
   miraculously to spring up, as Moses did in the wilderness.

   Amos iv. 7 is in Midr. on Cant. ii. 13 applied to the first of the
   seven years before Messiah come.

   Amos v. 18 is one of the passages adduced in the Talmud (Sanh. 98 b) to
   explain why certain Rabbis did not wish to see the day of the Messiah.

   Amos viii. 11 is applied to Messianic times in Ber. R. 25.

   Amos ix. 11 is a notable Messianic passage. Thus, in the Talmud (Sanh.
   96 b) where the Messiah is called the Son of the Fallen,' the name is
   explained by a reference to this passage. Again, in Ber. R. 88, last
   three lines (ed. Warsh. p. 157 a) after enumerating the unexpected
   deliverances which Israel had formerly experienced, it is added: Who
   could have expected that the fallen tabernacle of David should be
   raised up by God, as it is written (Amos ix. 11) and who should have
   expected that the whole world should become one bundle (be gathered
   into one Church)? Yet it is written Zeph. iii. 9. Comp. also the long
   discussion in Yalkut on this passage (vol. ii. p. 80 a and b).

   Obadiah verses 18 and 21 are applied to the Kingdom and time of the
   Messiah in Deb. R. 1.

   Micah ii. 13. See our remarks on Gen. xviii. 4, 5. The passage is also
   Messianically quoted in the Midrash on Prov. vi. (ed. Lemberg, p. 5 a,
   first two lines).

   The promise in Micah iv. 3 is applied to the times of the Messiah in
   the Talmud (Shabb. 63 a).

   So is the prediction in verse 5 in Shemoth R. 15; while verse 8 is thus
   commented upon in the Targum: And thou Messiah of Israel, Who shalt be
   hidden on account of the sins of Zion, to thee shall the Kingdom come.'

   The well-know passage, Micah v. 2, is admittedly Messianic. So in the
   Targum, in the Pirqé de R. Eliez. c. 3, and by later Rabbis.

   Verse 3 is applied in the Talmud to the fact that the Messiah was not
   to come till the hostile kingdom had spread for nine months over the
   whole world (Yoma 10 a), or else, over the whole land of Israel (Sanh.
   98 b).

   Similarly Micah vii. 6 is applied to Messianic times in Sanh. 97 a, and
   in Sotah 49 b; also in the Midr. on Cant. ii. 13. And so is verse 15 in
   Yalkut (vol. ii. p. 112 b.)

   In Micah vii. 8, the expression, Jehovah shall be light to me, is
   referred to the days of the Messiah in Deb. R. 11, ed. Warsh. vol. v.
   p. 22 a.

   Nahum ii. 1. See our remarks on Is. lii. 7.

   Habakkuk ii. 3. This is applied to Messianic times in a remarkable
   passage in Sanh. 97 b, which will be quoted in full at the close of
   this Appendix; also in Yalkut, vol. ii. p. 83 b.

   Habakkuk iii. 18 is applied to Messianic times in the Targum.

   Zephaniah iii. 8. The words rendered in our A.V. the day that I rise up
   to the prey' are translated for testimony' and applied to God's bearing
   testimony for the Messiah (Yalkut, vol. ii. p. 84 c, line 6 from the
   top).

   Verse 9 is applied to the voluntary conversion of the Gentiles in the
   days of the Messiah in the Talmud (Abhod. Zarah, 24 a); and in Ber. R.
   88; and verse 11 in Sanh. 98 a.

   Haggai ii. 6 is expressly applied to the coming redemption in Deb. R. 1
   (ed. Warsh. p. 4 b, line 15 from the top).

   Zech. i. 20. The four carpenters there spoken of are variously
   interpreted in the Talmud (Sukk. 52 b), and in the Midrash (Bemidbar R.
   14). But both agree that one of them refers to the Messiah.

   Zech. ii. 10 is one of the Messianic passages to which we have referred
   in our remarks on Is. lx. 4. It has also a Messianic cast in the
   Targum.

   Zech. iii. 8. The designation Branch' is expressly applied to King
   Messiah in the Targum. Indeed, this is one of the Messiah's peculiar
   names.

   Verse 10 is quoted in the Midrash on Ps. lxxii. (ed. Warsh. p. 56 a, at
   the top) in a description of the future time of universal peace.

   Zech. iv. 7 is generally applied to the Messiah, expressly in the
   Targum, and also in several of the Midrashim. Thus, as regards both
   clauses of it, in Tanchuma (Par. Toledoth 14, ed. Warsh. p. 37 b and 38
   a).

   Verse 10 is Messianically explained in Tanchuma (u. s.).

   Zech. vi. 12 is universally admitted to be Messianic. So in the Targum,
   the Jerusalem Talmud (Ber. 5 a), in the Pirqé de R. Eliez. c. 48, and
   in the Midrashim.

   Zech. vii. 13 is one of the three passages supposed to mark the near
   advent of Messiah. See our remarks on Jer. v. 19.

   Zech. viii. 12 is applied to Messianic times in Ber. R. 12. See our
   remarks on Gen. ii. 4.

   Zech. viii. 23 is one of the predictions expected to be fulfilled in
   Messianic days, it being however noted that it refers to instruction in
   the Law in that remarkable passage on Is. lx. 1 in Yalkut ii. p. 56 d,
   to which we have already referred.

   In Zech. ix. 1 the name Chadrakh' is mystically separated into Chad,'
   sharp, and rakh,' gentle, the Messiah being the one to the Gentiles and
   the other to the Jews (Siphré on Deut. p. 65 a, Yalkut i. p. 258 b).

   Verse 9. The Messianic application of this verse in all its parts has
   already repeatedly been indicated. We may here add that there are many
   traditions about this ass on which the Messiah is to ride; and so firm
   was the belief in it, that, according to the Talmud, if anyone saw an
   ass in his dreams, he will see salvation' (Ber. 56 b). The verse is
   also Messianically quoted in Sanh. 98 a, in Pirqé de R. Eliez. c. 31,
   and in several of the Midrashim.

   On verse 10 see our remarks on Deut. xx. 10.

   Zech. x. 4 is Messianically applied in the Targum.

   Zech. xi. 12 is Messianically explained in Ber. R. 98, but with this
   remark, that the 30 pieces of silver apply to 30 percepts, which the
   Messiah is to give to Israel.

   Zech. xii. 10 is applied to the Messiah the Son of Joseph in the Talmud
   (Sukk. 52 a), and so is verse 12, there being, however, a difference of
   opinion whetherthe mouring is caused by the death of the Messiah the
   Son of Joseph, or else on account of the evil concupiscence (Yetser
   haRa).

   Zech. xiv. 2 will be readily understood to have been applied to the
   wars of Messianic times, and this in many passages of the Midrashim,
   as, indeed, are verses 3, 4, 5, and 6.

   Verse 7. The following interesting remark occurs in Yalkut on Ps.
   cxxxix. 16, 17 (vol. ii. p. 129 d) on the words none of them.' This
   world is to last 6,000 years; 2,000 years it was waste and desolate,
   2,000 years mark the period under the Law, 2,000 years that under the
   Messiah. And because our sins are increased, they are prolonged. As
   they are prolonged, and as we make one year in seven a Sabbatic year,
   so will God in the latter days make one day a Sabbatic year, which day
   is 1,000 years - to which applies the verse in Zechariah just quoted.
   See also Pirqé de R. Eliez. c. 28.

   Verse 8 is Messianically applied in Ber. R. 48. See our remarks on Gen.
   xviii 4, 5.

   Verse 9 is, of course, applied to Messianic times, as in Yalkut i. p.
   76 c, 266 a, and vol. ii. p. 33 c, Midr. on Cant. ii. 13, and in other
   passages.

   Malachi iii. 1 is applied to Elijah as forerunner of the Messiah in
   Pirqé de R.Eliez. c. 29.

   Verse 4. In Bemidbar R. 17, a little before the close (ed. Warsh. p. 69
   a), this verse seems to be applied to acceptable sacrifices in
   Messianic days.

   On verse 16 Vayyikra R. 34 (ed. Warsh. p. 51 b, line 4 from the bottom)
   has the following curious remark: If any one in former times did the
   Commandment, the prophets wrote it down. But now when a man observes
   the Commandment, who writes it down? Elijah and the King Messiah and
   the Holy One, blessed be His Name, seal it at their hands, and a
   memorial book is written, as it is written Mal. iii. 16.

   The promise in verse 17 is extended to Messianic days in Shemoth R. 18.

   On Mal. iv. 1 (in Hebrew iii. 19) the following curious comment occurs
   in Bereshith R. 6 (p. 14 b, lines 15 &c. from the bottom): The globe of
   the sun is encased, as it is said, He maketh a tabernacle for the sun
   (Ps. xix.). And a pool of water is before it. When the sun comes out,
   God cools its heat in the water lest it should burn up the world. But
   in the latter days the Holy One takes it out of its sheath, and with it
   burns up the wicked, as it is written Mal. iv. 1.'

   Verse 2 (iii. 20 in Hebrew) is in Shemoth R. 31 quoted in connection
   with Ex. xxii. 26, and explained till the Messiah comes.'

   Verse 5 is, of course, applied to the forerunner of the Messiah. So in
   many places, as in the Pirqé de R. Eliez. c. 40; Debarm R. 3; in the
   Midrash on Cant. i. 1; in the Talmud, and in Yalkut repeatedly. [6434]

   To the above passages we add some from the Apocryphal Books, partly as
   indicating the views concerning the Messiah which the Jews had derived
   from the Old Testament, and partly because of their agreement with
   Jewish traditionalism as already expounded by us. These passages must
   therefore be judged in connection with the Rabbinical ideas of the
   Messiah and of Messianic days. It is in this sense that we read, for
   example, the address to Jerusalem, Tobit xiii. 9 to the end. Comp.
   here, for example, our quotations on Amos ix. 11.

   Similarly Tobit xiv. 5-7 may be compared with our quotations on Ps. xc,
   Is. lx. 3, and especially on Zech. viii. 23, also on Gen. xlix. 11.

   Wisdom of Solomon iii. 7, 8 may be compared with our remarks on Is.
   lxi. 1.

   Ecclus. xliv. 21 &c. and xlvii. 11 may be compared with our quotations
   on Ps. lxxxix. 22-25; Ps. cxxxii. 18; Ezek. xxix. 21.

   Ecclus. xlviii. 10, 11. See the comments on Is. lii. 7, also our
   references on Mal. iii. 1; Mal. iv. 5; Deut. xxv. 19 and xxx. 4; Lam.
   ii. 22. In Sotah ix. 15 Elijah is represented as raising the dead.

   Baruch ii. 34, 35; iv. 29 &c.; and ch. v. are so thoroughly in
   accordance with Rabbinic, and, indeed, with Scriptual views, that it is
   almost impossible to enumerate special references.

   The same may be said of 1 Macc. ii. 57; while such passages as iv. 46
   and xiv. 41 point forward to the ministry of Elijah as resolving
   doubts, as this is frequently described in the Talmud (Shekalim ii. 5;
   Men. 45 a, Pes. 13 a; and in other places).

   Lastly, 2 Macc. ii. 18 is fully enlarged on in the Rabbinic
   descriptions of the gathering of Israel.

   Perhaps it may be as well here to add the Messianic discussion in the
   Talmud, to which such frequent reference has been made (Sanhedrin,
   beginning at the two last lines of p. 96 b, and ending at p. 99 a). The
   first question is that asked by one Rabbi of the other, whether he knew
   when the Son of the Fallen would come? Upon which follows an
   explanation of that designation, based on Amos ix. 11, after which it
   is added that it would be a generation in which the disciples of the
   sages would be diminished, and the rest of men consume their eyes for
   sorrow, and terrible sorrows so follow each other, that one had not
   ceased before the other began. Then a description is given of what was
   to happen during the hebdomad when the Son of David would come. In the
   first year it would be according to Amos iv. 7; in the second year
   there would be darts of famine; in the third year great famine and
   terrible mortality, in consequence of which the Law would be forgotten
   by those who studied it. In the fourth year there would be abundance,
   and yet no abundance; in the fifth year great abundance and great joy,
   and return to the study of the Law; in the sixth year voices
   (announcements); in the seventh wars, and at the end of the seventh the
   Son of David would come. Then follows some discussion about the order
   of the sixth and seventh year, when Ps. lxxxix. 51 is referred to. Next
   we have a description of the general state during those days. Sacred
   places (Academies) would be used for the vilest purposes, Galilee be
   desolated, Gablan laid waste, and the men of Gebul wander from city to
   city, and not find mercy. And the wisdom of the scribes would be
   corrupted, and they who fear sin be abhorred, and the face of that
   generation would be like that of a dog, and truth should fail,
   according to Is. lix. 15. (Here a side issue is raised.) The Talmud
   then continues in much the same terms to describe the Messianic age as
   one, in which children would rebel against their parents, and as one of
   general lawlessness, when Sadduceeism should universally prevail,
   apostasy increase, study of the Law decrease; and, generally, universal
   poverty and despair of redemption prevail, the growing disregard of the
   Law being pointed out as specially characterising the last days. R.
   Kattina said: The world is to last 6,000 years, and during one
   millennium it is to lie desolate, according to Is. ii. 17. R. Abayi
   held that this state would last 2,000 years, according to Hosea vi. 2.
   The opinion of R. Kattian was however, regarded as supported by this,
   that in each period of seven there is a Sabbatic year, the day here =
   1,000 years of desolateness and rest - the appeal being to Is. ii. 17;
   Ps. xcii. 1, and xc. 4. According to another tradition the world was to
   last 6,000 years: 2,000 in a state of chaos, 2,000 under the Law, and
   2,000 being the Messianic age. But on account of Israel's sins those
   years were to be deducted which had already passed. On the authority of
   Elijah it was stated that the world would not last less than
   eighty-five jubilees, and that in the last jubilee the Son of David
   would come. When Elijah was asked whether at the beginning or at the
   end of it, he replied that he did not know. Being further asked whether
   the whole of that period would first elapse or not, he similarly
   replied, his meaning being supposed to be that until that term people
   were not to hope for the Advent of Messiah, but after that term they
   were to look for it. A story is related of a man being met who had in
   his hands a writing in square Hebrew characters, and in Hebrew, which
   he professed to have got from the Persian archives, and in which it was
   written that after 4,290 years from the Creation the world would come
   to an end. And then would be the wars of the great sea-monsters, and
   those of Gog and Magog, and the rest of the time would be the time of
   the Messiah, and that the Holy One, blessed be His Name, would only
   renew His world after the 7,000 years; to which, however, one Rabbi
   objects, making it 5,000 years. Rabbi Nathan speaks of Habakkuk ii. 3
   as a passage so deep as to go down to the abyss, reproving the opinion
   of the Rabbis who sought out the meaning of Daniel vii. 25, and of
   Rabbi Samlai, who similarly busied himself with Ps. lxxx. 5, and of
   Rabbi Akiba, who dwelt upon Haggai ii. 6. But the first kingdom
   (Babylonian?) was to last seventy years; the second (Asmonæan?)
   fifty-two years; and the rule of the son of Kozebhah (Bar Kakhabh, the
   false Messiah) two and a half years. According to Rabbi Samuel,
   speaking in the name of Rabbi Jonathan: Let the bones of those be
   broken who calculate the end, because they say, The end has come, and
   the Messiah has not come, therefore He will not come at all. But still
   expect Him, as it is said (Hab. ii. 3), Though it tarry, wait for it.'
   Perhaps thou wilt say: We wait for Him, but He does not wait for it. On
   this point read Is. xxx. 18. But if so, what hinders it? The quality of
   judgment. But in that case, why should we wait? In order to receive the
   reward, according to the last clause of Is. xxx. 18. On which follows a
   further discussion. Again, Rabh maintains that all the limits of time
   as regards the Messiah are past, and that it now only depends on
   repentance and good works when He shall come. To this Rabbi Samuel
   objected, but Rabh's view was supported by Rabbi Eliezer, who said that
   if Israel repented they would be redeemed, but if not they would not be
   redeemed. To which Rabbi Joshua added, that in the latter case God
   would raise over them a King whose decrees would be hard like those of
   Haman, when Israel would repent. The opinion of Rabbi Eliezer was
   further supported by Jer. iii.22, to which Rabbi Joshua objected by
   quoting Is. lii. 3, which seemed to imply that Israel's redemption was
   not dependent on their repentance and good works. On this Rabbi Joshua
   retorted by quoting Mal. iii. 7, to which again Rabbi Joshua replied by
   by quoting Jer. iii. 14, and Rabbi Eleizer by quoting Is. xxx. 15. To
   this Rabbi Joshua replied from Is. xlix. 7. Rabbi Eliezer then urged
   Jer. iv.1, upon which Rabbi Joshua retorted from Dan. xii. 7, and so
   effectually silenced Rabbi Eliezer. On this Rabbi Abba propounded that
   there was not a clearer mark of the Messianic term than that in Is.
   xxxvi. 8. To which Rabbi Eliezer added Zech. viii. 10. On this the
   question is raised as to the meaning of the words neither was there any
   peace to him that went out or came in.' To this Rabh gave answer that
   it applied to the disciples of the sages, according to Ps. cxix. 165.
   On which Rabbi Samuel replied that at that time all the entrances would
   be equal (i.e. that all should be on the same footing of danger). Rabbi
   Chanina remarked that the Son of David would not come till after fish
   had been sought for for the sick and not found, according to Ezek.
   xxxii. 14 in connection with Ezek. xxix. 21. Rabbi Chamma, the son of
   Rabbi Chaina, said that the Son of David would not come until the vile
   dominion over Israel had ceased, appealing to Is. xviii. 5, 7. R. Seira
   said that Rabbi Chanina said: The Son of David would not come till the
   proud had ceased in Israel, according to Zeph. iii. 11, 12. Rabbi
   Samlai, in the name of Rabbi Eliezer the son of Rabbi Simeon, said that
   the Son of David would not come till all judges and rulers had ceased
   in Israel, according to Is. i. 26. Ula said Jerusalem is not to be
   redeemed, except by righteousness, according to Is. i. 27. We pass over
   the remarks of Rabbi Papa, as not adding to the subject. Rabbi Jochanan
   said: If thou seest a generation that increasingly diminishes, expect
   Him, according to 2 Sam. xxii. 28. He also added: If thou seest a
   generation upon which many sorrows come like a stream, expect Him,
   according to Is. lix. 19, 20. He also added: The son of David does not
   come except in a generation where all are either righteous, or all
   guilty - the former idea being based on Is. lx. 21, the latter on Is.
   lix. 16 and xlviii. 11. Rabbi Alexander said, that Rabbi Joshua the son
   of Levi referred to the contradiction in Is. lx. 22 between the words
   in his time' and again I will hasten it,' and explained it thus: If
   they are worthy, I will hasten it, and if not, in His time. Another
   similar contradiction between Dan. vii. 13 and Zech. ix. 9 is thus
   reconciled: if Israel deserve it, He will come in the clouds of heaven;
   if they are not deserving, He will come poor, and riding upon an ass.
   Upon this it is remarked that Sabor the King sneered at Samuel, saying:
   You say that the Messiah is to come upon an ass: I will send Him my
   splendid horse. To which the Rabbi replied: Is it of a hundred colours,
   like His ass? Rabbi Joshua, the son of Levi, saw Elijah, who stood at
   the door of Paradise. He said to him: When shall the Messiah come? He
   replied: When that Lord shall come (meaning God). Rabbi Joshua, the son
   of Levi, said: I saw two (himself and Elijah), and I heard the voice of
   three (besides the former two the Voice of the son of Jochai, and said
   to him: Shall I attain the world to come? Elijah replied: If it
   pleaseth the Lord. Upon which follows the same remark: I have seen the
   Messiah come? To which the answer is: Go and ask Him thyself. And where
   does He abide? At the gate of the city (Rome). And what is His sign? He
   abides among the poor, the sick and stricken. And all unbind, and bind
   up again the wounds at the same time, but He undoes (viz. the bandage)
   and rebinds each separately, so that if they call for Him they may not
   find him engaged. [6435] He went to meet Him and said: peace be to
   Thee, my Rabbi and my Lord. He replied to him: Peace be to thee, thou
   son of Levi. he said to Him: When wilt Thou come, my Lord? He replied
   to him: To-day. Then he turned to Elijah, who said to him: What has He
   said to thee? He said to me: Son of Levi, peace be to thee.  Elijah
   said to him: He has assured thee and thy Father of the world to come.
   He said to him: But He has deceived me in that He said: I come to-day,
   and he has not come. He said to him that by the words to-day' He meant:
   To-day if ye will hear My voice (Ps. xcv. 7). Rabbi José was asked by
   his disciples: When will the Son of David come? To this he replied: I
   am afraid you will ask me also for a sign. Upon which they assured him
   they would not. On this he replied: When this gate (viz. of Rome) shall
   fall, and be built, and again fall, and they shall not have time to
   rebuild it till the Son of David comes. They said to him: Rabbi, give
   us a sign. He said to them: Have ye not promised me that ye would not
   seek a sign? They said to him: Notwithstanding do it. He said to them:
   If so, the waters from the cave of Pamias (one of the sources of the
   Jordan) shall be changed into blood. In that moment they were changed
   into blood. Then the Rabbi goes on to predict that the land would be
   overrun by enemies, every stable being filled with their horses. Rabh
   said that the son of David would not come till the kingdom (i.e foreign
   domination) should extend over Israel for nine months, according to
   Micah v. 3. Ula said: Let Him come, but may I not see Him, and so said
   Raba. Rabbi Joseph said: Let Him come, and may I be found worthy to
   stand in the shadow of the dung of His ass (according to some: the tail
   of his ass). Abayi said to Raba: Why has this been the bearing of your
   words? If on account of the sorrows of the Messiah, we have the
   tradition that Rabbi Eliezer was asked by his disciples, what a man
   should do to be freed from the sorrows of the Messiah; on which they
   were told: By busying yourselves with the Torah, and with good works.
   And you are a master of the Torah, and you have good works. He
   answered: Perhaps sin might lead to occasion of danger. To this
   comforting replies are given from Scripture, such as Gen. xxviii. 15,
   and other passages, some of them being subjected to detailed
   commentation.

   Rabbi Jochanan expressed a similar dislike of seeing the days of the
   Messiah, on which Resh Lakish suggested that it might be on the ground
   of Amos v. 19, or rather on that of Jer. xxx. 6. Upon this, such fear
   before God is accounted for by the consideration that what is called
   service above is not like what is called service below (the family
   above is not like the family below), so that one kind may outweigh the
   other. Rabbi Giddel said, that Rabh said, that Israel would rejoice in
   the years of the Messiah. Rabbi Joseph said: Surely, who else would
   rejoice in them? Chillak and Billak? (two imaginary names, meaning no
   one). This, to exclude the words of Rabbi Hillel, who said: There is no
   Messiah for Israel, seeing they have had Him in the time of Hezikiah.
   Rabh said: The world was only created for David; Samuel, for Moses; and
   Rabbi Jochanan, for the Messiah. What is His Name? The school of Rabbi
   Shila said: Shiloh is His Name, according to Gen. xlix. 10. The school
   of Rabbi Jannai said: Jinnon, according to Ps. lxxii. 17. The school of
   Rabbi Chanina said: Chaninah, according to Jer. xvi. 13. And some say
   Menachem, the son of Hezikah, according to Lam. i. 16. And our Rabbis
   say: The Leprous One of the house of Rabbi, is His Name, as it is
   written Is liii. 4. Rabbi Nachman said: If He is among the living, He
   is like me, according to Jer. xxx. 21. Rabh said: If He is among the
   living, He is like Rabbi Jehudah the Holy, and if among the dead he is
   like Daniel, the man greatly beloved. Rabbi Jehudah said, Rabh said:
   God will raise up to them another David, according to Jer. xxx. 9, a
   passage which evidently points to the future. Rabbi Papa said to Abaji:
   But we have this other Scripture Ezek. xxxvii. 25, and the two terms
   (Messiah and David) stand related like Augustus and Cæsar. Rabbi Samlai
   illustrated Amos v. 18, by a parable of the cock and the bat which were
   looking for the light. The cock said to the bat: I look for the light,
   but of what use is the light to thee? So it happened to a Sadducee who
   said to Rabbi Abahu: When will the Messiah come? He answered him: When
   darkness covers this people. He said to him: Dost thou intend to curse
   me? He replied: It is said in Scripture Is. lx. 2. Rabbi Eliezer
   taught: The days of the Messiah are forty years according to Ps. xcv.
   10. Rabbi Eleazar, the son of Asariah, said: Seventy years, according
   to Is. xxiii. 15, according to the days of a King,' the King there
   spoken of being the unique king, the Messiah. Rabbi said: Three
   generations, according to Ps. lxxii. 5. Rabbi Hillel said: Israel shall
   have no more Messiah, for they had him in the days of Hezekiah. Rabbi
   Joseph said: May god forgive Rabbi Hillel: when did Hezekiah live?
   During the first Temple. And Zechariah prophesied during the second
   Temple, and said Zech. xi. 9. We have the tradition that Rabbi Eliezer
   said: The days of the Messiah are forty years. it is written Deut.
   viii. 3, 4, and again in Ps xc. 15 (showing that the days of rejoicing
   must be like those of affliction in the wilderness). Rabbi Dosa said:
   Four hundred years quoting Gen. xv. 13 in connection with the same
   Psalm. Rabbi thought it was 365 years, according to the solar year,
   quoting Is. lxiii. 4. He asked the meaning of the words: The day of
   vengeance is in My heart,' Rabbi Jochanan explained them: I have
   manifested it to My heart, but not to My members, and Rabbi Simon
   benLakish: To My heart, and not to the ministering angels. Abimi taught
   that the days of the Messiah were to last for Israel 7,000 years (a
   Divine marriage-week), according to Is. lxii. 5. Rabbi Jehudah said,
   that Rabbi Samuel said, that the days of the Messiah were to be as from
   the day that the world was created until now, according to Deut. xi.
   21. Rabbi Nacham said: As from the days of Noah till now, according to
   Is. liv. 9. Rabbi Chija said, that Rabbi Jochanan said: All the
   prophets have only prophesied in regard of the days of the Messiah; but
   in regard to the world to come, eye has not seen, O God, beside Thee,
   what He hath prepared for him that waiteth for Him (Is. lxiv. 4). And
   this is opposed to what Rabbi Samuel said, that there was no
   differences between this world and the days of the Messiah, except that
   foreign domination would cease. Upon which the Talmud goes off to
   discourse upon repentance, and its relation to perfect righteousness.

   Lengthy as this extract may be, it will at least show the infinite
   differences between the Rabbinic expectation of the Messiah, and the
   picture of him presented in the New Testament. Surely the Messianic
   idea, as realised in Christ, could not have been derived from the views
   current in those times!
     __________________________________________________________________

   [6427] Indeed, this Parashah in Bedr. R. contains other similar
   parallelisms between Gen. xvii. and Messianic times.

   [6428] As to these three measures of sufferings, and the share falling
   to the age of the Messiah sea also the Midrash on Ps. ii. 7.

   [6429] The Midrash gives two very curious explanations of his name.

   [6430] On the twofold Messiah, or rather the device of the Jews on this
   subject, see in the text of the chapter. I cannot but suspect that the
   words Son of Joseph' in the Talmud are a later and clumsy emendation,
   since what follows evidently applies to the Son of David.

   [6431] The idea of an organic connection between Israel and the Messiah
   seems also to underlie this passage.

   [6432] See the passage in Sanh. 96 b &c. given at the close of this
   Appendix.

   [6433] Signor Castelli remarks in his learned treatise (Il Messia, p.
   164) that redemption is always ascribed to God, and not to the Messiah.
   But the distinction is of no importance, seeing that this is indeed the
   work of God, but carried out by the Messiah, while, on the other hand,
   Rabbinic writings frequently refer Israel's deliverance to the agency
   of the Messiah.

   [6434] From the above review of Old Testament passages, all reference
   to sacrifices has been omitted, because, although the Synagogue held
   the doctrine of the vicariousness and atoning character of these
   sacrifices, no mention occurs of the Messiah in connection with them.

   [6435] The Vienna edition of the Talmud has several lacunæ on this page
   (98 a)
     __________________________________________________________________

APPENDIX X.

   ON THE SUPPOSED TEMPLE-SYNAGOGUE.

   (Vol. i. Book 11. ch. x.p. 246).

   PUTTING aside, as quite untenable, the idea of a regular Beth
   ha-Midrash in the Temple (though advocated even by Wünche), we have to
   inquire whether any historical evidence can be adduced for the
   existence of a Synagogue within the bounds of the Temple-buildings. The
   notice (Sot. vii. 8) that on every Sabbatic year lection of certain
   portions was made to the people in the Court,' and that a service was
   conducted there during public fasts on account of dry weather (Taan.
   ii. 5), can, of course, not be adduced as proving the existence of a
   regular Temple-Synagogue. On the other hand, it is expressly said in
   Sanh. 88 b, lines 19, 20 from top, that on the Sabbaths and feast-days
   the members of the Sanhedrin went out upon the Chel of Terrace of the
   temple, when questions were asked of them and answered. It is quite
   true that in Tos. Sanh. vii. (p. 158, col. d) we have an inaccurate
   statement about the second of the Temple-Sanhedrin as sitting on the
   Chel (instead of at the entrance of the Preists' Court, as in Sanh. 88
   b), and that there the Sabbath and festive discourses are loosely
   designated as a Beth haMidrash' which was on the Temple-Mount.' [6436]
   But since exactly the same description - indeed, in the same words - of
   what took place is given in the Tosephta as in Talmud itself, the
   former must be corrected by the latter, or rather the term Beth
   ha-Midrahs' must be taken in the wider and more general sense as the
   place of Rabbinic exposition,' and not as indicating any permanent
   Academy. But even if the words in the Tosephta were to be taken in
   preference to those in the Talmud itself, they contain no mention of
   any Temple-Synagogue.

   Equally inappropriate are the other arguments in favor of this supposed
   Temple-Synagogue. The first of them is derived from a notice in Tos.
   Sukkah. iv. 4, in which R. Joshua explains how, during the first night
   of the Feast of Tabernacles, the pious never saw sleep' since they
   went, first to the Morning Sacrifice, thence of the Synagogue, thence
   the Beth ha-Midrash, thence to the Evening Sacrifice, and thence to the
   "joy of the house of water drawing"' (the night-feast and services in
   the Temple-Courts). The only other argument is that from Yoma vii. 1,2
   where we read that while the bullock and the goat were burned the
   High-Priest read to the people certain portions of the Law, the roll of
   which was handed by the Chazzan of the Synagogue (it is not said which
   Synagogue) to the head of the Synagogue, by him to the Sagan, and by
   the Sagan to the High-Priest. [6437] How utterly inconclusive inference
   from these notices are, need not be pointed out. More than this - the
   existence of a Temple-Synagogue seems entirely incompatible with the
   remark in Yoma vii. 2, that it was impossible for anyone present at the
   reading of the High-Priest to witness the burning of the bullock and
   goat - and that, not because the former took place in a regular
   Temple-Synagogue, but because the way was far and the two services were
   exactly at the same time.' Such, so far as I know, are all the
   Talmudical passages from which the existence of a regular
   Temple-Synagogue has been inferred, and with what reason, the reader
   may judge for himself.

   It is indeed easy to understand that Rabbinism and later Judaism should
   have wished to locate a Synagogue and a Beth ha-Midrash within the
   sacred precincts of the Temple itself. But it is difficult to account
   for the circumstance that such Christian scholars as Reland, Carpzov,
   and Lightfoot should have been content to repeat the statement without
   subjecting its grounds to personal examination. Vitringa (Synag. p. 30)
   almost grows indignant at the possibility of any doubt - and that,
   although he himself quotes passages from Maimonides to the effect that
   the reading of the Law by the High-Priest on the Day of Atonement took
   place in the Court of the Women, and hence not in any supposed
   Synagogue. Yet commentators generally, and writers on the Life of
   Christ have located the sitting of our Lord among the Doctors in the
   Temple in this supposed Temple-Synagogue. [6438]
     __________________________________________________________________

   [6436] So also by Maimonides, Yad ha-Chas. vol. iv. p. 241 a (Hilc.
   Sanc. ch. iii.)

   [6437] A similar arrangement is described in Sot. vii. 8 as connected
   with the reading of the Law by the kings of Israel to the people
   according to Duet xxxi. 10. Will it be argued from this that there was
   a Synagogue in the temple in the early days of the kings?

   [6438] In a former book (Sketches of Jewish Life in the Time of our
   Lord') I had expressed hesitation and misgivings on the subject. These
   (as explained in the text), a fuller study has converted into absolute
   certitude against the popularly accepted hypothesis. And what, indeed,
   could have been the meaning of a Synagogue - which, after all, stood as
   substitute for the Temple and its Services, within the precincts of the
   Temple; or how could the respective services be so arranged as not to
   clash; or, lastly, have not the prayers of the Synagogue, admittedly,
   taken the place of the Services and Sacrifices of the Temple?
     __________________________________________________________________

APPENDIX XI.

   ON THE PROPHECY, IS. XL. 3

   (See vol. i. Book II. ch. xi. p. 260, Note 2.)

   ACCORDING to the Synoptic Gospels, the public appearance and preaching
   of John was the fulfilment of the prediction with which the second part
   of the prophecies of Isaiah opens, called by the Rabbis, the book of
   consolations.' After a brief general preface (Is. xl. 1, 2), the words
   occur which are quoted by St. Matthew and St. Mark (Is. xl. 3), and
   more fully by St. Luke (Is. xl. 3-5). A more appropriate beginning of
   the book of consolations' could scarcely be conceived.

   The quotation of Is. xl. 3 is made according to the LXX., the only
   difference being the change of paths of our God' into His paths.' The
   divergences between the LXX. and our Hebrew text of Is. xl. 4, 5 are
   somewhat more numerous, but equally unimportant - the main difference
   from the Hebrew original lying in this, that, instead of rendering all
   flesh shall see it together,' we have in the LXX. and the New
   Testament, all flesh shall see the salvation of God.' As it can
   scarcely be supposed that the LXX. read {hebrew} for {hebrew}, we must
   regard their rendering as Targumic. Lastly, although according to the
   accents in the Hebrew Bible we should read, The Voice of one crying: In
   the wilderness prepare,' &c., yet, as alike the LXX., the Targum, and
   the synoptists render, The Voice of one crying in the wilderness:
   Prepare,' their testimony must be regarded as outweighing the authority
   of the accents, which are of so much later date.

   But the main question is, whether Is. xl. 3, &c., refers to Messianic
   times or not. Most modern interpreters regard it as applying to the
   return of the exiles from Babylon. This is not the place to enter on a
   critical discussion of the passage; but it may be remarked that the
   insertion of the word salvation' in v.5 by the LXX. seems to imply that
   they had viewed it as Messianic. It is, at any rate, certain that the
   Synopists so understood the rendering of the LXX. But this is not all.
   The quotation from Is. xl. was regarded by the Evangelists as fulfiled,
   when John the Baptist announced the coming Kingdom of God. We have
   proof positive that, on the supposition of the correctness of the
   announcement made by John, they only took the view of their
   contemporaries in applying Is. lx. 3, &c., to the preaching of the
   Baptist. The evidence here seems to be indisputable, for the Targum
   renders the close of v. 9 (say unto the cities of Judah, Behold your
   God!') by the words: Say to the cities of the House of Judah, the
   Kingdom of your God shall be manifested.'

   In fact, according to the Targum, the good tidings' are not brought by
   Zion nor by Jerusalem, but to Zion and to Jerusalem.
     __________________________________________________________________

APPENDIX XII.

   THE BAPTISM OF PROSELYTES

   (See vol. i. Book II. ch. xi. p. 273.)

   ONLY those who have made study of it can have any idea how large, and
   sometimes bewildering, is the literature on the subject of Jewish
   Proselytes and their Baptism. Our present remarks will be confined to
   the Baptism of Proselytes.

   1. Generally, as regards proselytes (Gerim) we have to distinguish
   between the Ger ha-Shaar (proselyte of the gate) and Ger Toshabh
   (sojourner,' settled among Israel), and again the Ger hatstsedeq
   (proselyte of righteousness) and Ger habberith (proselyte of the
   covenant). The former are referred to by Josephus (Ant. xiv. 7. 2), and
   frequently in the New Testament, in the Authorised Version under the
   designation of those who fear God,' Acts xiii. 16, 26; are religious,'
   Acts xiii. 43; devout,' Acts xiii. 50; xvii. 4, 17; worship God,' Acts
   xvi. 14; xviii. 7. Whether the expression devout' and feared God' in
   Acts x. 2, 7 refers to proselytes of the gates is doubtful. As the
   proselytes of the gate' only professed their faith in the God of
   Israel, and merely bound themselves to the observance of the so-called
   seven Noachic commandments (on which in another place), the question of
   baptism' need not be discussed in connection with them, since they did
   not even undergo circumcision.

   2. It was otherwise with the proselytes of righteousness,' who became
   children of the covenant,' perfect Israelites,' Israelites in every
   respect, both as regarded duties and privileges. All writers are agreed
   that three things were required for the admission of such proselytes:
   Circumcision (Milah), Baptism (Tebhilah), and a Sacrifice (Qorban, in
   the case of women: baptism and sacrifice) - the latter consisting of a
   burnt-offering of a heifer, or of a pair of turtle doves or of young
   doves (Maimonides, Hilkh. Iss. Biah xiii. 5). After the destruction of
   the Temple promise had to be made of such a sacrifice when the services
   of the Sanctuary were restored. On this and the ordinances about
   circumcision it is not necessary to enter further. That baptism was
   absolutely necessary to make a proselyte is so frequently stated as not
   to be disputed (See Maimonides, u. s.; the tractate Massekheth Gerim in
   Kirchheim's Septem Libri Talm. Parvi, pp. 38-44 [which, however, adds
   little to our knowledge]; Targum on Ex. xii. 44; Ber. 47 b; Kerith. 9
   a; Jer. Yebam. p. 8 d; Yebam. 45 b, 46 a and b, 48 b, 76 a; Ab. Sar. 57
   a, 59 a, and other passages). There was, indeed a difference between
   Rabbis Joshua and Eliezer, the former maintaining that baptism alone
   without circumcision, the latter that circumcision alone without
   baptism, sufficed to make a proselyte, but the sages decided in favour
   of the necessity of both rites (Yebam. 46 a and b). The baptism was to
   be performed in the presence of three witnesses, ordinarily Sanhedrists
   (Yebam. 47 b), but in case of necessity others might act. The person to
   be baptized, having cut his hair and nails, undressed completely, made
   fresh profession of his faith before what were the fathers of the
   baptism' (our Godfathers, Kethub. 11 a; Erub. 15 a), and then immersed
   completely, so that every part of the body was touched by the water.
   The rite would, of course, be accompanied by exhortations and
   benedictions (Maimonides, Hilkh. Milah iii. 4; Hilkh. Iss. Biah xiv.
   6). Baptism was not to be administered at night, nor on a Sabbath or
   feast-day (Yebam. 46 b). Women were attended by those of their own sex,
   the Rabbis standing at the door outside. Yet unborn children of
   proselytes did not require to be baptized, because they were born in
   holiness' (Yebam. 78 a). In regard to the little children of preselytes
   opinions differed. A person under age was indeed received, but not
   regarded as properly an Isaelite till he had attained majority. Secret
   baptism, or where only the mother brought a child, was not
   acknowledged. In general, the statements of a proselyte about his
   baptism required attestation by witnesses. But the children of a Jewess
   or of a proselyte were regarded as Jews, even if the baptism of the
   father was doubtful.

   It was indeed a great thing when, in the words of Maimonides, a
   stranger sought shelter under the wings of the Shekhinah, and the
   change of condition which he underwent was regarded as complete. The
   waters of baptism were to him in very truth, though in a far different
   from the Christian sense, the bath of regeneration' (Titus iii. 5). As
   he stepped out of these waters he was considered as born anew' - in the
   language of the Rabbis, as if he were a little child just born' (Yeb.
   22 a; 48 b; 97 b), as a child of one day' (Mass. Ger. c. ii.). But this
   new birth was not a birth from above' in the sense of moral or
   spiritual renovation, but only as implying a new relationship to God,
   to Israel, and to his own past, present, and future. It was expressly
   enjoined that all the difficulties of his new citizenship should first
   be set before him, and if, after that, he took upon himself the yoke of
   the law, he should be told how all those sorrows and persecutions were
   intended to convey a greater blessing, and all those commandments to
   redound to greater merit. More especially was he to regard himself as a
   new man in reference to his past. Country, home, habits, friends, and
   relation were all changed. The past, with all that had belonged to it,
   was past, and he was a new man - the old, with its defilements, was
   buried in the waters of baptism. This was carried outwith such pitiless
   logic as not only to determine such questions as those of inheritance,
   but that it was declared that, except, for the sake of not bringing
   proselytism into contempt, a proselyte might have wedded his own mother
   or sister (comp. Yeb. 22 a; Sanh. 58 b). It is a curious circumstances
   that marriage with a female proselyte was apparently very popular
   (Horay. 13 a, line 5 from bottom; see also Shem. R. 27), and the Talmud
   names at least three celebrated doctors who were the offspring of such
   unions (comp. Derenbourg, Hist. de la Palest., p. 223, note 2). The
   praises of proselytism are also sung in Vayy. R. 1.

   If anything could have further enhanced the value of such proselytism,
   it would have been its supposed anitquity. Tradition traced it up to
   Abraham and Sarah, and the expression (Gen. xii. 5) the souls that they
   had gotten' was explained as referring to their proselytes, since every
   one that makes a proselyte is as if he made (created) him' (Ber. R. 39,
   comp also the Targums Pseudo-Jon. and Jerus. and Midr. on Cant. i. 3).
   The Talmud, differing in this from the Targumim, finds in Exod. ii. 5 a
   reference to the baptism of Pharoah's daughter (Sotah 12 b, line 3;
   Megill. 13 a, line 11). In Shem. R. 27 Jethro is proved to have been a
   convert, from the circumstances that his original name had been Jether
   (Exod. iv. 18), an additional letter (Jethro). as in the case of
   Abraham, having been added to his name when became a proselyte (comp.
   also Zebhach. 116 a and Targum Ps.-Jon. on Exod. xviii. 6, 27, Numb.
   xxiv. 21. To pass over other instances, we are pointed to Ruth (Targum
   on Ruth i. 10, 15). and to Nebuzaradan, who is also described as a
   proselyte (Sanh. 96 b, line 19 form the bottom). But is is said that in
   the days of David and Solomon proselytes were not admitted by the
   Sanhedrin because their motives were suspected (Yeb. 76 a), or that at
   least they were closely, watched.

   But although the baptism of proselytes seems thus far beyond doubt,
   Christian theologians have discussed the question, whether the rite was
   practised at the time of Christ, or only introduced after the
   destruction of the Temple and its Services, to take the place of the
   Sacrifice previously offered. The conversy, which owed its origin
   chiefly to dogmatic prejudices on the part of Lutherans, Calvinists,
   and Baptists, has since been continued on historical or
   quasi-historical grounds. The silence of Josephus and Philo can
   scarcely be quoted in favour of the later origin of the rite. On the
   other hand, it may be urged that, as Baptism did not take the place of
   sacrifices in any other instance, it would be difficult account for the
   origin of such a rite in connection with the admission of proselytes.

   Again, if a Jew who had become Levitically defiled, required imersion,
   it is difficult to suppose that a heathen would have been admittd to
   all the services of the Sanctuary without a similar purification. But
   we have also positive testimony (which the objections of Winer, Keil,
   and Leyrer, in my opinion do not invalidate), that the baptism of
   proselytes existed in the time of Hillel and Shammai. For, whereas the
   school of Shammai is said to have allowed a proselyte who was
   circumcised on the eve of the Passover, to partake after baptism of the
   Passover, [6439] the school of Hillel forbade it. This controversy must
   be regarded as providing that at that time (previous to Christ) the
   baptism of proselytes was customary [6440] (Pes. viii. 8, Eduy. v. 2).

   APENDIX XIII

   JEWISH ANGELOLOGY AND DEMONOLOGY. THE FALL OF THE ANGELS.

   (See vol. i. Book III. ch. i. p. 306.)

   WITHOUT here entering on a discussion of the doctrine of Angels and
   devils as presented in Holy Scripture, the Apocrypha, and the
   Pseudepigrapha, it will be admitted that considerable progression may
   be marked as we advance from even the latest Canonical to Apocryphal,
   and again from these to the Pseudepigraphic Writings. The same remark
   applies even more strongly to a comparison of the later with Rabbinic
   literature. There we have comparitively little of the Bibical in its
   purity. But, added to it, we now find much that is the outcome of
   Eastern or of prurient imagination, of national conceit, of ignorant
   superstition, and of foreign, especailly Persian, elements. In this
   latter respect it is true - not, indeed, as regards the doctrine of
   good and evil Angels, but much of its Rabbinic elaboration - that the
   names of the Angels (and of the months) were brought form Babylon (Jer.
   Rosh. haSh. 56 d; Ber. r. 48), and with the names,' not a few of the
   notions regarding them. At the same time, it would be unjust to deny
   that mush of the symbolism which it is evidently intended to convey is
   s singularly beautiful.

    I. ANGELOLOGY.

   1. Creation, Number, Duration and Location of the Angels. We are now
   considering, not the Angel-Princes but that vast unnumbered Host'
   generally designated as the ministering Angels' ({hebrew}). Opinions
   differ (Ber. R. 3) whether they were created on the second day as being
   spirit,' winds' (Ps. civ. 4), or on the fifth day (Is. vi. 2) in
   accordance with the words of Creation on those days. Viewed in
   reference to God's Service and Praise, they are a flaming fire:' in
   regard to their office, winged messengers (Pirqé de R. El. 4). But not
   only so: every day ministering Angels are created, whose apparent
   destiny is only to raise the praise of God, after which they pass away
   into the fiery stream (Nahar deNur) whence they originally issued
   [6441] (Chag. 14 a; Ber. R. 78). More than this - a new Angel is
   created to execute to every behest of God, and then passeth away (Chag.
   u. s.). This continual new creation of Angels, which is partly a
   beautiful allegory, partly savours of the doctrine of emanation,' is
   Biblical supported by an appeal to Lament. iii. 23. Thus it may be said
   that daily a Kath, or company, of Angels is created for daily sevice of
   God, and that every word which proceedeth from His mouth becomes an
   Angel' [Messenger - mark here the ideal unity of Word and Deed],
   (Chang. 14 a).

   The vast number of that Angelic Host, and the consequent safety of
   Israel as against its enemies, was described in the most hyperbolic
   language. There were 12 Mazzaloth (signs of the Zodiac), each having 30
   chiefs of armies, each chief with 30 legions, each legion with 30
   leaders, each leader with 30 captains, each captain with 30 under him,
   and each of these things with 365,000 stars - and all were created for
   the sake of Israel! (Ber. 32. b.) Similarly, when Nebuchadnezzar
   proposed to ascend into heaven, and to exalt his throne above the
   stars, and be like the Most High, the Bath Qol replied to this grandson
   of Nimrod that man's age was 70, or at most 80 years, while the way
   from earth to the firmament occupied 500 years, [6442] a thickness of
   the firmament was 500 years, the feet of the living creatures were
   equal to all that had preceded, and the joints of their feet to as many
   as had preceded them, and so on increasingly through all their members
   up to their horns, after which came the Throne of Glory, the feet of
   which again equalled all that had preceded, and so on (Chag. 13 a
   [6443] ). [6444] In connection with this we read in Chag. 12 b that
   there are seven heavens: the Vdon, in which there is the sun; Riqia, in
   which the sun shines, and the moon, stars, and planets are fixed;
   Shechaqim, in which are the millstones to make the manna for the pious;
   Zebhul, in which the Upper Jerusalem, and the Temple and the Altar, and
   in which Michael, the chief Angel-Prince, offers sacrifices; Maon, in
   which the Angels of the Ministry are, who sing by night and are silent
   by day for the sake of the honour of Israel (who now have their
   services); Machon, in which are the treasuries of snow, hail, the
   chambers of noxious dews, and of the receptacles of water, the chamber
   of wind, and the cave of mist, and their doors are of fire; lastly,
   Araboth, wherein Justice, Judgment and Righteousness are, the treasures
   of Life, of Peace and of Blessing, the soul of the righteous, and the
   spirtis and souls of those who are to be born in the future, and the
   dew by which the dead are to be raised. There also are the Ophanim, and
   the Seraphim, and the living creatures and the ministering Angels, and
   the Throne of Glory and over them is enthroned the Great King. [For a
   description of this Throne and of the Appearance of its King, see Pirqé
   de R. Eliez. 4.] On the other hand, sometimes every power and phenomeon
   in Nature is hypostatised into an Angel - such as hail, rain, wind, sea
   &c.; similarly, every occurence, such as life, death, nourishment,
   poverty, nay, as it is expressed: there is not stalk of grass upon
   earth but it has its Angels in heaven (Ber R. 10). This seems to
   approximate the views of Alexandrian Mysticism. So also, prehaps, the
   idea that certain Bibical heroes became after death Angels. But as this
   may be regarded as implying their service as messengers of God. we
   leave it for the present.

   2. The Angel-Princes, their location, names, and offices. Any
   limitation, as toduration or otherwise, of the Ministering Angels does
   not apply either to the Ophanim (or wheel-angels), the Seraphim, the
   Cayoth (or living creatures), nor to the Angel-Princes (Ber. R. 78).
   [6445] In Chag. 13 a, b the name Chashamal is given to the living
   creatures.' The word is explained as composed of two others which mean
   silence and speech - it being beautifully explained, that they keep
   silence when the Word proceeds out of the mouth of God, and speak when
   He has ceased. It would be difficult exactly to state the number of the
   Angel-Princes. The 70 nations, of which the world is composed, had each
   their Angel-Prince (Targ. Jer. on Gen xi.7, 8; comp. Ber. R. 56; Shem.
   R. 21; Vayyi. R. 29; Ruth R. ed. Warsh. p. 36 b), who plead their cause
   with God. Hence these Angels are really hostile to Israel, and may be
   regarded as not quite good Angels, and are cast down when the
   nationality which they represent is destroyed. It may have been as a
   reflection on Christian teaching that Israel was described as not
   requiring any representative with God, like the Gentiles. For, as will
   soon appear, this was not the general view entertained. Besides these
   Gentile Angel-Princes there were other chiefs, whose office will be
   explained in the sequel. Of these 5 are specially mentioned, of whom
   four surrounded the Throne of God: Michael, Gabriel, Rephael, and
   Uriel. But the greatest of all is Metatron, who is under the Throne,
   and before it. These Angels are privileged to be within the Pargod, or
   cloudy veil, while the others only hear the Divine commands or councels
   outside this curtain (Chag. 16 a, Pirqé d. R. El. iv.). It is a slight
   variation when the Targum Pseudo-Jonathan on Deut. xxxiv. 6 enumerates
   the following as the 6 principal Angels: Michael, Gabriel, Metatron,
   Yopheil, Uriel, and Yophyophyah. The Book of Enoch (ch. xx.) speaks
   also of 6 principal Angels, while Pirqé d. R. Eliez. iv. mentions
   seven. In that very curious passage (Berakhoth 51 a) we read of three
   directions given by Suriel, Prince of the Face, to preserve the Rabbis
   from the Techaspith (company of Evil Angels), or according to others,
   form Istalganith (another company of Evil Angels). In Chag. 13 b we
   read of an Angel called Sandalpon, who stands upon the earth, while his
   head reaches 500 years' way beyond the living creatures. He is supposed
   to stand behind the Merkabah (the throne-charriot), and make crowns for
   the Creator, which rise of their own accord. We also read of Sagsagel,
   who taught Moses the sacred Name of God, and was present at his death.
   But, confining ourselves to the five pricipal Angel-chiefs, we have,

   a. Metaron, [6446] who appears most closely to correspond to the Angel
   of the Face, or the Logos. He is the representative of God. In the
   Talmud (Sanh. 38 b) a Christian is introduced as clumsily starting a
   controvesy on this point, that, according to the Jewish contention,
   Exod. xxiv. 1 should have read, Come up to Me.' On this R. Idith
   explained that the expression referred to the Metatron (Exod. xxxiii.
   21), but denied the inference that Metatron was either to be adored, or
   had power to forgive sins, or that he was to be regarded as a Mediator.
   In continuation of this conversy we are told (Chang. 15 a, b) that,
   when an apostate Rabbi had seen Metatron sitting in heaven, and would
   have interferred from it that there were two supreme powers, Metatron
   received from another Angel 60 fiery stripes so as to prove his
   inferiority! In Targ. Ps.-Jon. on Gen. v. 24 he is called the Great
   Scribe, and also the Prince of this world. He is also designated as the
   Youth,' and in the Kabbalah as the Little God,' who had 7 names like
   the Almighty, and shared His Majesty. he is also called the Prince of
   the Face,' and described as the Angel who sits in the innermost chamber
   (Chag. 5 b), while the other Angels hear their commands outside the
   Veil (Chag. 16 a). He is represented as showing the unseen to Moses
   (Siphré, p. 141 a), and as instructing infants who have died without
   receiving knowledge (Abhod. Zar. 3 b). In the Introduction to the
   Midrash on Lamentations there is a revolting story in which Metatron is
   represented as proposing to shed tears in order that God might not have
   to weep over the destruction of Jerusalem, to which, however, the
   Almighty is made to refuse His assent. We hestitate to quote further
   from the passage. In Siphré on Deut. (ed. Freidm. p. 141 a) Metatron is
   said to have shown Moses the whole of Palestine. He is also said to
   have gone before Israel in the Wilderness.

   b. Michael (who is like God?'), or the Great Prince (Chag. 12 b). He
   stands at the right hand of the throne of God. According to Targ.
   Ps.-Jon. on Exod. xxiv. 1, he is the Prince of Wisdom. According to the
   Targum on Ps. cxxxvii. 7, 8, the Prince of Jerusalem, the
   representative of Israel. According to Sebach. 62 a he offers upon the
   heavenly Altar; according to some, the soul of the pious; according to
   others, lambs of fire. But, although Michael is the Prince of Israel,
   he is not to be invoked by them (Jer. Ber. ix. 13 a). In Yoma 77 a we
   have an instance of his inefectual advocacy for Israel before the
   destruction of Jerusalem. The origin of his name as connected with the
   Song of Moses at the Red Sea is explained in Bemidb. R. 2. Many
   instances of his activity are related. Thus, he delivered Abraham from
   the fiery oven of Nimrod, and afterwards, also, the Three Children out
   of the fiery furnace. He was the principal or middle Angel of the three
   who came to announce to Abraham the birth of Isaac, Gabriel being at
   his right, and Rephael at his left. Michael also saved Lot. Michael and
   Gabriel wrote down that the primogeniture belonged to Jacob, and God
   comfirmed it. Michael and Gabriel acted as friends of the bridegroom'
   in the nuptials of Adam. Yet they could not bear to look upon the glory
   of Moses. Michael is also supposed to have been the Angel in the bush
   (according to others, Gabriel). At the death of Moses, Michael prepared
   his bier, Gabriel spread a cloth over the head of Moses, and Sagsagel
   over his feet. In the world to come Micheal would pronounce the
   blessing over the fruits of Eden, then hand them to Gabriel, who would
   give them to the patriarchs, and so on to David. The superiority of
   Michael over Gabriel is asserted in Ber. 4 b, where, by an ingenious
   combination with Dan. x. 13, it is shown that Is. vi. 6 applies to him
   (both having the word {hebrew}, one). It is added that Michael flies in
   one fight, Gabriel in two, Elijah in four, and the Angel of Death in
   eight flights (no doubt to give time for repentance).

   c. Gabriel (the Hero of God') represents rather judgment, while Michael
   represents mercy. Thus he destroyed Sodom (Bab. Mez. 86 b, and other
   places). He restored to Tamar the pledges of Judah, which Sammael had
   taken away (Sot. 10 b). He struck the servants of the Egyptian
   princess, who would have kept their mistress from taking Moses out of
   the water (Sot. 12 b); also Moses, that he might cry and so awaken
   pity. According to some, it was he who delivered the Three Children;
   but all are agreed that he killed the men that were standing outside
   the furnace. He also smote the army of Sennacherib. The passage in
   Ezek. x. 2, 7 was applied to Gabriel, who had received from the Cherub
   two coals, which, however, he retained for six years, in the hope that
   Israel might repent. [6447] He is supposed to be referred to in Ezek.
   ix. 4 as affixing the mark on the forehead which is a {hebrew}, drawn,
   in the wicked, in blood (Shabb. 55 a). We are also told that he had
   instructed Moses about making the Candlestick, on which occasion he had
   put on an apron, like a goldsmith; and that he had disputed with
   Michael about the meaning of a word. To his activity the bringing of
   fruits to maturity is ascribed - perhaps because he was regarded as
   made of fire, while Michael was made of snow (Deb. R. 5). These Angels
   are supposed to stand beside each other, without the fire of the one
   injuring the snow of the other. The curious legend is connected with
   him (Shabb. 56 b, Sanh. 21 b), that, when Solomon maried the daughter
   of Pharaoh, Gabriel descended into the sea, and fixed a reed in it,
   around which a mudbank gathered, on which a forest sprang up. On this
   site imperal Rome was built. The meaning of the legend - or perhaps
   rather allegory - seems (as explained in other parts of this book)
   that, when Israel began to decline from God, the punishment through its
   enemies was prepared, which culminated in the dominion of Rome. In the
   future age Gabriel would hunt and slay Leviathan. This also may be a
   parabolic representation of the destruction of Israel's enemies.

   d. Of Uriel (God is my light') and Rephael (God heals') it need only be
   said, that the one stands at the left side of the Throne of glory, the
   other behind it. [6448]

   3. The Ministering Angels and their Ministry. The ministry of the
   Angels may be divided into two parts, that of praising God, and that of
   executing His behests. In regard to the former, there are 684,000
   myriads who daily praise the Name of God. From sunrise to sundown they
   say: Holy, holy, holy, and from sundown to sunrise: Blessed be the
   Glory of God from its place. In connection with this we may mention the
   beautiful allegory (Shem. R. 21) that the Angel of prayer weaves crowns
   for God out of the prayer of Israel. As to the execution of the Divine
   commands by the Angels, it is suggested (Aboth d. R. Nathan 8) that
   their general designation as ministering Angels might have led to
   jealousy among them. Accordingly, their names were always a composition
   of that of God with the special commission entrused to them (Shem. r.
   29), so that the name of each Angel depended in Yalkut (vol. ii. Par.
   797), where we are told that each Angel has a tablet on his heart, in
   which the Name of God and that of the Angel is combined. This change of
   names explained the answer of the Angel to Manoah (Bemidb. R. 10). It
   is impossible to enumerate all the instances of Angelic activity
   recorded in Talmudic writings. Angels had performed the music at the
   first sacrifice of Adam; they had announced the consequences of his
   punishment; they had cut off the hands and feet of the serpent; they
   had appeared to Abraham in the form of a baker, a sailor, and an Arab.
   120,000 of them had danced before Jacob when he left Laban; 4,000
   myriads of them were ready to fight for him against Esau; 22,000 of
   them descended on Sinai and stood beside Israel when, in their terror
   at the Voice of God, they fled for twelve miles. Angels were directed
   to close the gates of heaven when the prayer of Moses with the
   All-powerful, Ineffable Name in it, which he had learn from Sagsagel,
   would have prevented his death. Finally, as they were pledged to help
   Israel, so would they also punish every apostate Israelite. Especially
   would they execute that most terrible punishment of throwing souls to
   each other from one world to another. By the side of these debasing
   superstitions we come upon beautiful allegories, such as that a good
   and an evil Angel always accompanied man, but especially on the eve of
   the Sabbath when he returned from the Synagouge, and that for every
   precept he observed God sent him a protecting Angel. This is
   realistically developed in Pirké d. R. El. 15, where the various modes
   and time which the good Angels keep man from destruction are set forth.

   It is quite in accordance with what we know of the system of Rabbinsim,
   that the heavenly host should be represented as forming a sort of
   consultative Sanhedrin. Since God never did anything without first
   taking counsel with the family above (Sanh. 38 b), [6449] it had been
   so when He resolved to create man. Afterward the Angels had interceded
   for Adam, and, when God pointed to his disobedience, they had urged
   that thus death would also come upon Moses and Aaron, who were sinless,
   since one fate must come to the just and the unjust. Similarly, they
   had interceded for Isaac, when Abraham was about to offer him and
   finally dropped three tears on the sacrificial knife, by which its edge
   became blunted. And so through the rest of Israel's history, where on
   all critical occasions Jewish legend introduces the Angels on the
   scene.

   4. Limitation of the power of the Angels. According to Jewish ideas,
   the faculties, the powers, and even the knowledge of Angels were
   limited. They are, indeed, pure spiritual beings (Vayyikra R. 24),
   withoust sensuous requirements (Yoma 75 b), without hatred, envy, or
   jealousy (Chag. 14), and without sin (Pirqé d. R. El. 46). They know
   much, notably the future (Ab. d. R. Nath. 37), and have part in the
   Divine Light. They live on the beams of the Divine Glory (Bem. R. 21),
   are not subject to our limitatious as to movement, see but are not seen
   (A b. d. R. Nath. u. s.), can turn their face to any side (Ab. d. R.
   Nath. 37), and only appear to share in our ways, such as in eating
   (Bar. R. 48). Still, in many respects they are inferior to Israel, and
   had been employed in ministry (Ber. R. 75). They were unable to give
   names to the animals, which Adam did (Priqé d. R. El. 13). Jacob had
   wrestled with the Angel and prevailed over him when the Angel wept
   (Chull. 92 a). Thus it was rather their nature than their powers or
   dignity which distinguished them from man. No angel could do two
   messaages at the same time (Ber. R. 50). In general they are merely
   instruments blindly to do a certain work, not even beholding the Throne
   of Glory (Bemidb. R. 14), but needed mutual assistance (Vayyikia R.
   31). They are also liable to punishments (Chag. 16 a). Thus, they were
   banished from their station for 138 years, because they had told Lot
   that God would destroy Sodom, while the Angel-Princes of the Gentiles
   were kept in chains till the days of Jeremiah. As regards their limited
   knowledge, with the exception of Gabriel, they do not understand
   Chaldee or Syriac (Sot. 33 a). The realistic application of their
   supposed ignorance on this score need not here be repeated (see Shabb.
   12 b). As the Angels are inferior to the righteous, it follows that
   they are so to Israel. God had informed the Angels that the creation of
   man was superior to theirs, and it had excited their envy. Adam
   attained a place much nearer to God than they, and God loved Israel
   more than the Angels. And God had left all the ministerng Angels in
   order to come to Moses, and when He communicated with him it was
   directly, and the Angels standing between them did not hear what
   passed. In connection with this ministry of the Angels on behalf of
   Biblical heroes a curious legend may here find its place. From a
   combination of Ex. xviii. 4 with Ex. ii. 15 the strange inference was
   made that Moses had actually been seized by Pharaoh. Two different
   accounts of how he escaped from his power are given. According to the
   one, the sword with which he was to be executed rebounded from the neck
   of Moses, and was broken, to which Cant. vii. 5 was supposed to refer,
   it being added that the rebound killed the would-be executioner.
   According to another account, an Angel took the place of Moses, and
   thus enabled him to fly, his flight being facilitated by the
   circumstances that all the attendants of the king were miraculously
   rendered either dumb, deaf, or blind, so that they could not execute
   the behest of their master. Of this miraculous interposition Moses is
   supposed to have been reminded in Ex. iv. 11, for his encouragement in
   undertaking his mission to Pharaoh. In the exaggeration of Jewish
   boastfulness in the Law, it was said that the Angels had wished to
   receive the Law, but that they had not been granted this privilege (Job
   xxviii. 21). And sixty myriads of Angels had crowned with two crowns
   every Israelite who at Mount Sinai had taken upon himself the Law
   (Shabb. 88 a). In view of all this we need scarcely mention the
   Rabbinic prohibition to address to the Angels prayers, even although
   they bore them to heaven (Jer. Ber. ix. 1), or to make pictorial
   representations of them (Targ. Ps-Jon. on Ex. xx. 23; Mechilta on the
   passage, ed. Weiss, p. 80 a).

   5. The Angels are not absolutely good. Strange as it may seem, this is
   really the view expressed by the Rabbis. Thus it is said that, when God
   consulted the Angels, they opposed the creation of man, and that, for
   this reason, God had concealed from them that man would sin. But more
   than this - the Angels had actually conspired for the fall of man (the
   whole of this is also related in Pirqé d. R. El. 13). Nor had their
   jealous and envy been confined to that occasion. They had accused
   Abraham, that, when he gave a great feast at the weanng of Issac, he
   did not even offer to God a bullock or a goat. Similarly, they had laid
   charges against Ishmael, in the hope that he might be left to perish of
   thirst. They had expostulated with Jacob, because he went to sleep at
   Bethel. But especially had they, from envy, opposed Moses' ascension
   into heaven; they had objected to his being allowed to write down the
   Law, falsely urging that Moses would claim the glory of it for himself,
   and they are represented, in a strangely blasphemous manner, as having
   been with difficulty appeased by God. In Shabb. 88 b we have an account
   of how Mosses pacified the Angels, by showing that the Law was not
   suitable for them, since they were not subjeect to sinful desires, upon
   which they became the friends of Moses, and each taught him some
   secret, among others the Angel of death how to arrest the pestilence.
   Again, it is said, that the Angels were wont to bring charges against
   Israel, and that, when Manasseh wished to repent, the Angels shut the
   entrance to heaven , so that his prayer might not penetrate into the
   presence of God.

   Equally profane, though in another direction, is the notion that Angels
   might be employed for magical purposes. This had happened at the siege
   of Jerusalem under Nebuchadnezzar, when, after the death of that mighty
   hero Abika, the son of Gaphteri, Chananeel, the uncle of Jeremiah, had
   conjured up ministering Angels, who affrighted the Chaldees into
   flight. On this God had changed their names, when Chananee, unable any
   longer to command their services, had summoned up the Prince of the
   World by using the Ineffable Name, and lifted Jerusalem into the air,
   but God had trodden it down again, to all which Lam. ii. 1 referred
   (Yalk. vol. ii. p. 166 c and d, Par. 1001). The same story is repeated
   in another place (p. 167, last line of col. c, and col. d), with the
   addition that the leading inhabitants of Jerusalem had proposed to
   defend the city by conjuring up the Angels of Water and Fire, and
   surrounding their city with walls of water, of fire, or of iron; but
   their hopes were disappointed when God assigned to the Angel names
   different from those which they had previously possessed, so that when
   called upon they were unable to do what was expected of them.

   6. The Names of the Angels. Besides those already enumerated, we may
   here mention, [6450] the Sar ha-Olam, or Prince of the World' (Yeb. 16
   b); the Prince of the Sea, whose name is supposed to have been Rahab,
   and whom God destroyed because he had refused to receive the waters
   which had covered the world, and the smell of whose dead body would
   kill every one if it were not covered by water. Dumah is the Angel of
   the realm of the dead (Ber. 18 b). When the soul of the righteous
   leaves the body, the ministering Angels announce it before God, Who
   deputes them to meet it. Three hosts of Angels then proceed on this
   errand, each quoting successively one clause of Is. lvii. 2. On the
   other hand, when the wicked leave the body, they are met by three hosts
   of destroying Angels, one of which repeats Is. xlviii. 22, another Is.
   1. 11, and the third Ezek. xxxii. 19 (Keth. 104 a). Then the souls of
   all the dead, good or bad, are handed over to Dunah. Yorqemi is the
   Prince of hail. He had proposed to cool the fiery furnace into which
   the Three Children were cast, but Gabriel had objected that this might
   seem a deliverance by natural means, and being himself the Prince of
   the fire, had proposed, instead of this, to make the furnace cold
   within and hot without, in order both to deliver the Three Children and
   to destroy those who watched outside (Pes. 118 a and b) [6451] Ridya,
   or Rayda is the Angel of rain. One of the Rabbis professed to describe
   him from actual vision as like a calf whose lips were open, standing
   between the Upper and the Lower Deep, and saying to the Upper Deep, Let
   your waters run down, and to the Lower, Let your waters spring up. The
   representation of this Angel as a calf may be due to the connection
   between rain and ploughing, and in connection with this may it be
   noticed that Ryda means both a plough and ploughing (Taan. 25 b). Of
   other Angels we will only name the Ruach Pisqonith, or Spirit of
   decision, who is supposed to have made most daring objection to what
   God had said, Ezek. xvi. 3, in which he is defended by the Rabbis,
   since his activity had been on behalf of Israel (Sanh. 44 b); Naqid,
   the Angel of Food; Nabhel, the Angel of Poverty; the two Angels of
   Healing; the Angel of Dreams, Lailah; and even the Angel of Lust.
   [6452]

   It is, of course, not asserted that all these grossly materialistic
   superstitious and profane views were entertained in Palestine, or at
   the time of our Lord, still less that they are shared by educated Jews
   in the West. But they certainly date from Talmudic times; they embody
   the only teaching of Rabbic writings about the Angels which we possess,
   and hence, whencesoever introduced, or however developed, their roots
   must be traced back to far earlier times than those when they were
   propounded in Rabbic Academies. All the more that modern Judaism would
   indignantly repudiate them, do they bear testimony against Rabbic
   teaching. And one thing at least must be evident, for the sake of which
   we have undertaken the task of recording at such length views and
   statements repugnant to all reverent feeling. The contention of certain
   modern writers that the teaching about Angels in the New Testament is
   derived from, and represents Jewish notions must be preceived to be
   absolutely groundless and contrary to fact. In truth, the teaching of
   the New Testament on the subject of Angels represents, as compared with
   that of the Rabbis, not only a return to the purity of Old Testament
   teaching, but, we might almost say, a new revelation.

    II. SATANOLOGY AND FALL OF THE ANGELS.

   The difference between the Santanology of the Rabbis and of the New
   Testament is, if possible, even more marked than that in their
   Angelology. In general we note that, with the exception of the word
   Satan, none of the names given to the great enemy in the New Testament
   occurs in Rabbinic writing. More important still, the latter contain no
   mention of a Kingdom of Satan. In other words, the power of the evil is
   not contrasted with that of good, nor Satan with God. The devil is
   presented rather as the enemy of man, than of God and of good. This
   marks a fundamental difference. The New Testament sets before us two
   opposing kingdoms, or principles, which excerise absolute sway over
   man. Christ is the Stronger one' who overcometh the strong man armed,'
   and taken from him not only his spoils, but his armour (St. Luke xi.
   21, 22). It is a moral contest in which Satan is vanquished, and the
   liberation of his subjects is the consequence of his own subdual. This
   implies the deliverance of man from the power of the enemy, not only
   externally but internally, and substitution of a new principle of
   spiritual life for the old one. It introduces a moral element, both as
   the ground and as the result of the contest. From this point of view
   the difference between the New Testament and Rabbinism cannot be too
   much emphasised, and it is no exaggeration to say that this alone - the
   question here being one of principle not of details - would mark the
   doctrine of Christ as fundamentally divergent from, and incomparably
   superior to, that of Rabbinsim. Whence hath this Man this
   wisdom?'Assuredly, it may be answered, not from His contemporaries.

   Since Rabbinism viewed the great enemy' only as the envious and
   malicious opponent of man, the spiritual element was entirely
   eliminated. [6453] Instead of the personified principle of Evil, to
   which there is response in us, and of which all have some experience,
   we have only a clumsy and - to speak plainly - often a stupid hater.
   This holds equally true in regard to the threefold aspect under which
   Rabbinism presents the devil: as Satan (also called Sammael); as the
   Yetser haRa, or evil impluse personified; and as the Angel of Death -
   in other words, as the Accuser, Tempter, and Punisher. Before
   explaining the Rabbinic views on each of these points, it is necessary
   to indicate them in regard to -

   1. The Fall of Satan and of his Angels. This took place, not
   antecedently, but subsequently to the creation of man. As related in
   Pirqé de R. Eliezer, ch 13, the primary cause of it was jealously and
   envy on the part of the Angels. [6454] Their opposition to man's
   creation is also described in Ber. R. 8, although there the fall of man
   is not traced to Satanic agency. But we have (as before stated) a
   somewhat blasphemous account of the discussions in the heavenly
   Sanhedrin, whether or not man should be created. While the dispute was
   still proceeding God actually created man, and addressed the
   ministering Angels: Why dispute any longer? Man is already created.' In
   the Pirqé de R. Eliezer, we are only told that the Angels had in vain
   attempted to oppose the creation of man. The circumstance that his
   superiority was evidenced by his ability to give names to all
   creatures, induced them to lay a plot against Adam,' so that by his
   fall they might obtain supermacy. Now of all Angel-Princes in heaven
   Sammael was the first - distinguished above. Taking the company of
   Angels subject to him, he came down upon earth, and selected as the
   only fit instrument for his designs the serpent, which at that time had
   not only speech, but hands and feet, and was in stature and appearance
   like the camel. In the language of the Pirqé de R. Eliezer, Sammael
   took complete possession of the serpent, even as demoniacs act under
   the absolute control of evil spirits. Then Sammael, in the serpent,
   first deceived the woman, and next imposed on her by touching the tree
   of life (although the tree cried out), saying, that he had actually
   touched' the tree, of which he pretended the touch had been forbidden
   on pain of death (Gen. iii. 3) [6455] - and yet he had not died! Upon
   this Eve followed his example, and touched the tree when she
   immediately saw the Angel of Death coming against her. Afraid that she
   would die and God give another wife to Adam, she led her husband into
   sin of disobedience. The story of the Fall is somewhat differently
   related in Ber. R. 18, 19. No mention is there earlier of Sammael or of
   his agency, and the serpent is represented as beguiling Eve from a wish
   to marry her, and for that purpose to compass the death of Adam.

   Critical ingenuity may attempt to find a symbolic meaning in many of
   the details of the Jewish legend of the Fall, although, to use moderate
   language, they seem equally profane and repulsive. But this will surely
   be admitted by all, that the Rabbinic account of the fall of the
   Angels, as connected with fall of man, equally contrasts with the
   reverent reticence of the Old Testament narrative and the sublime
   teaching of the New Testament about sin and evil.

   2. Satan, or Sammael, as the accuser of man. And clumsy, indeed, are
   his accusations. Thus the statement (Gen. xxii. 1) that God tempted
   Abraham' is, in Jewish legend, transformed (Sanh. 89 b) into a scene,
   where, in the great upper Sanhedrin (Ber. R. 56), Satan brings
   accusation against the Patriarch. [6456] All his previous piety had
   been merely interested; and now when, at the age of one hundred, God
   had given him a son, he had made a great feast and not offered aught to
   the Almighty. On this God is represented as answering, that Abraham was
   ready to sacrifice not only an animal but his own son; and this had
   been the occasion of the temptation of Abraham. That this legend is
   very ancient, indeed pre-Christian (a circumstance of considerable
   importance to the student of this history) appears from its occurrence,
   though in more general form, in the Book of Jubilees, ch. xvii. In
   Ber.R. 55 and in Tacchuma (ed. Warsh p. 29 a and b), the legend is
   connected with a dispute between Isaac and Ishmael as to their
   respective merits, when former declares himself ready to offer up his
   life unto God. In Tanchuma (u. s.) we are told that this was one of the
   great merits of man, to which the Almighty and pointed when the Angels
   made objection to his creation.

   3. Satan, or Sammael, as the seducer of man. This statement in Baba B.
   16 a which identifies Satan with the Yetser haRa, or evil impluse in
   man, must be regarded are a rationalistic attempt to gloss over the
   older teaching about Sammael, by representing him as a personification
   of the evil inclination within us. For, the Talmud not only
   distinguishes between a personal Satan without, and evil inclination
   within man, but expressly ascribes to God the creation of the Yetser
   haRa in man as he was before the Fall, the occurrence of two {hebrew}
   in the word {hebrew} (and He formed,' Gen. ii. 7) being supposed to
   indicate the existence of two impulses in us - the Yetser Tobh and the
   Yetser haRa (Ber. 61 a). And it is stated that this existence of evil
   in man's original nature was infinite comfort in the fear which would
   otherwise beset us in trouble (Ber. R. 14). More than this (as will
   presently be shown), the existence of this evil principle within us was
   declared to be absolutely necessary for the continuance of the world
   (Yoma 69 b, Sanh. 64 a)

   Satan, or Sammael, is introduced as the seducer of man in all the great
   events of Israel's history. With varying legendary additions the story
   of Satan's attempts to prevent the obedience of Abraham and the
   sacrifice of Isaac is told in Sanh. 89 b, Ber. R. 56, and Tanchuma, p.
   30 a and b. Yet there is nothing even astute, only a coarse realism,
   about the description of the clumsy attempts of Satan to turn Abraham
   from, or to hinder him in, his purpose; to influence Isaac; or to
   frighten Sarah. Nor are the other personages in the legend more
   successfully sketched. There is a want of all higher conception in the
   references to the Almighty, a painful amount of downright
   untruthfulness about Abraham, lamentable boastfulness and petty spite
   about Isaac, while the Sarah of the Jewish legend is rather a weak old
   Eastern woman than the mother in Israel. To hold perversions of the Old
   Testament by the side of the New Testament conception of the motives of
   lives of the heros of old, or the doctrinal inferences and teaching of
   the Rabbis by those of Christ and His Aspostles, were to compare
   darkness with light.

   The same remarks apply to the other legends in which Satan is
   introduced as seducer. Anything more childish could scarcely be
   invented than this, that, when Sammael could not otherwise persuade
   Israel that Moses would not return from Mount Sinai, he at last made
   his bier appear before them in the clouds (Shab. 89 a), unless it be
   this story, that when Satan would seduce David he assumed the form of a
   bird, and that, when David shot at it, Bath-Sheba suddenly looked up,
   thus gaining the king by her beauty (Sanh. 107 a). In both these
   instances the obvious purpose is to palliate the guilt whether of
   Israel or of David, which, indeed, is in other places entirely
   explained away as not due to disobedience or to lust (Comp. Ab. Zar. 4
   b, 5 a).

   4. As the Enemy of man, Satan seeks to hurt and destory him; and he is
   the Angel of Death. Thus, when Satan had failed in shaking the
   constancy of Abraham and Isaac, he attacked Sarah (Yalkut, i. Par. last
   lines p. 28 b). To his suggestions, or rather false reports, her death
   had been due, either from fright at being told that Isaac had been
   offered (Pirqé de R. El. 32, and Targum Ps.- Jon.), or else fron the
   shock, when after all she learned that Isaac was not dead (Ber. R. 58).
   Similarly, Satan had sought to take from Tamar the pledges which Judah
   had given her. He appeared as an old man to show Nimrod how to have
   Abraham cast into the fiery oven, at the same time persuading Abraham
   not to resist it, &c. Equally puerile are the representations of Satan
   as the Angel of Death. According to Abod. Zar. 20 b, the dying sees his
   enemy with a drawn sword, on the point of which a drop of gall
   trembles. In his fright he opens his mouth and swallows this drop,
   which accounts for the pallor of the face and the corruption that
   follows. According to another Rabbi, the Angel of Death really uses his
   sword, although, on account of the dignity of humanity, the wound which
   he inflicts is not allowed to be visible. It is difficult to imagine a
   narrative more repulsive than that of the death of Moses according to
   Deb. R. 11. Beginning with the triumph of Sammael over Michael at the
   expected event, it tells how Moses had entreated rather to be changed
   into a beast or a bird than to die; how Gabriel and Michael had
   successively refused to bring the soul of Moses; how Moses, knowing
   that Sammael was coming for the purpose, had armed himself with the
   Ineffable Name; how Moses had in boastfulness recounted to Sammael all
   his achievements, real and legendary; and how at last Moses had pursued
   the Enemy with the Ineffable Name, and in his anger taken off one of
   his horns of glory and blinded Satan in one eye. We must be excused
   from following this story through its revolting details.

   But, whether as the Angel of Death or as the seducer of man, Sammael
   has not absolute power. When Israel took the Law upon themselves at
   Mount Sinai, they became entirely free from his sway, and would have
   remained so, but for the sin of the Golden Calf. Similarly, in the time
   of Ezra, the object of Israel's prayer (Neh. vii.) was to have Satan
   delivered to them. After a three day's fast it was granted, and the
   Yetser haRa of idolatry, in the shape of a young lion, was delivered up
   to them. It would serve no good purpose to repeat the story of what was
   done with the bound enemy, or how his cries were rendered inaudible in
   heaven. Suffice it that, in view of the requirements of the present
   world, Israel liberated him from the ephah covered with lead (Zech. v.
   8), under which, by advice of the prophet Zechariah, they had confined
   him, although for precaution they first put out his eyes (Yoam, 69 b).
   And yet, in view, or probably, rather, in ignorance, of such teaching,
   modern criticism would derive the Satanology of the New Testament and
   the history of the Temptation from Jewish sources!

   Over these six persons - Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses, Aaron, and
   Miriam, with whom some apparently rank Benjamin - the Angel of Death,
   had no power (Baba. B. 17 a). Benjamin, Amram, Jesse, and Chileb (the
   son of David) are said to have died (only) through the sin of the
   serpent.' In other cases, also, Sammael may not be able to exercise his
   sway till, for example, he has by some ruse diverted a theologian from
   his sacred study. Thus he interrupted the pious meditations of David by
   going up into a tree and shaking it, when, as David went to examine it,
   a rung of the ladder, on which he stood, broke, and so interrupted
   David's holy thoughts. Similarly, Rabbi Chasda, by occupation with
   sacred study, warded off the Angel of Death till the crackling of a
   beam diverted his attention. Instances of the awkwardness of the Enemy
   are related (Kethub. 77 b), and one rabbi - Joshua, actually took away
   his sword, only returning it by direct command of God. Where such views
   of Satan could even find temporary expression, supersititous fears may
   have been excited; but the thought of moral evil and of a moral combat
   with it could never have found lodgment.

    III. Evil Spirits (Shedim, Ruchin, Rucoth, Lilin).

   Here also, as throughout, we mark the presence of Parsee elements of
   superstition. In general, these spirits resemble the gnomes,
   hobglobins, elves, and sprites of our fairy tales. They are cunning and
   malicious, and contact with them is dangerous; but they can scarcely be
   described as absolutley evil. Indeed, they often prove kind and useful;
   and may at all times be rendered innocuous, and even made serviceable.

   1. Their origin, nature, and numbers. Opinions differ as to their
   origin, in fact, they variously originated. According to Ab. 12 b, Ber.
   R. 7, they were created on the eve of the first Sabbath. But since that
   time their numbers have greatly increased. For, according to Erub. 18
   b, Ber. R. 20 (ed Warsh. p. 40 b), multitudes of them were the
   offspring of Eve and of male spirits, and of Adam with female spirits,
   or with Lillith (the queen of the female spirits), during the 130 years
   that Adam had been under the ban, and before Seth was born (Gen. v. 3):
   [6457] comp. Erub. 18 b. Again, their number can scarcely be limited,
   since they propogate themselves (Chag. 16 a), resembling men in this as
   well as in their taking of nourishment and dying. On the other hand,
   like the Angels they have wings, pass unhindered through space, and
   know the future. Still further, they are produced by a process of
   transformation from vipers, which, in the course of four times seven
   years, successively pass through the forms of vampires, thistles and
   thorns, into Shedim (Bab. K. 16 a) - perhaps a parabolic form of
   indicating the origination of Shedim through the fall of man. Another
   parabolic idea may be implied in the saying that Shedim spring from the
   backbone of those who have not bent in worship (u.s.).

   Although Shedim bear, when they appear, the form of human beings, they
   may assume any other form. Those of their number who are identified wth
   dirty places are represented as themselves black (Kidd. 72 a). But the
   reflection of their likeness is not the same as that of man. When
   conjured up, their position (whether with the head or the feet
   uppermost) depends on the mode of conjuring. Some of the Shedim have
   defects. Thus, those of them who lodge in the caper bushes are blind,
   and an instance is related when one of their number, in pursuit of a
   Rabbi, fell over the root of a tree and perished (Pes. 111 b). Trees,
   gardens, vineyards, and also ruined and desolate houses, but especially
   dirty places, were their favourite habitation, and the night-time, or
   before cock-crowing, their special time of appearance. [6458] Hence the
   danger of going alone into such places (Ber. 3 a, b; 62 a). A company
   of two escaped the danger, while before three the Shed did not even
   appear (Ber. 43 b). For the same reason it was dnagerous to sleep alone
   in a house (Shabb. 151 b), while the man who went out before cock-crow,
   without at least carrying for protection a burning torch (though
   moonlight was far safer) had his blood on his own head. If you greeted
   anyone in the dark you might unawares bid Godspeed to a Shed (Sanh. 44
   a). Nor was the danger of this inconsiderable, since one of the worst
   of these Shedim, especially hurtful to Rabbis, was like a dragon with
   seven heads, each of which dropped off with every successive lowly
   bending during Rabbi Acha's devotions (Kidd. 29 b). Specially dangerous
   times were the days of Wednesday and of the Sabbath. But it was a
   comfort to know that the Shedim could not create or produce anything;
   nor had they power over that which had been counted, measured, tied up
   and sealed (Chull. 105 b); they could be conquered by the Ineffable
   Name;' and they might be banished by the use of certain formulas,
   which, when written and worn, served as amulets.

   The number of these spirits was like the earth that is thrown up around
   a bed that is sown. Indeed, no one would survive it, if he saw their
   number. A thousand at your right hand and ten thousand at your left,
   such crowding in the Academy or by the side of a bride; such weariness
   and faintness through their malignant touch, which rent the very dress
   of the wearers! (Ber. 6 a) The queen of the female spirits had no less
   a folllowing than 180,000 (Pes. 112 b). Little as we imagine it, these
   spirits lurk everywhere around us: in the crumbs on the floor, in the
   oil in the vessels, in the water which we would drink, in the diseases
   which attack us, in the even-numbered cups of our drinking, in the air
   in the room, by day and by night.

   2. Their arrangement. Generally, they may be arranged into male and
   female spirits, the former under their king Ashmedai, the latter under
   their queen Lilith probably the same as Agrath bath Machlath - only
   that the latter may more fully present hurtful aspect of the demoness.
   The hurtful spirits are specially designated as Ruchin, Mazziqin
   (harmers), Malakhey Chabbalath (angels of damage), &c. From another
   aspect they are arranged into four classes (Targ. Pseudo-Jon. Numb. vi.
   24): the Tsaphriré, or morning spirits (Targ. on Ps. cxxi. 6; Targ.
   Cant. iv. 6); the Tiharé, or midday spirits (Targ. Pesudo-Jon. Deut.
   xxxii 24; Targ. Cant. iv. 6); the Telané, or evening spirits (Targ.
   Cant. iii. 8; iv. 6; Targ. Eccles. ii. 5); and the Lilin, or night
   spirits (Targ. Pseudo-Jon. on Deut. xxxii. 34; Targ. Is. xxxiv. 14).
   (According to 2 Targ. Esther ii. 1, 3, Solomon had such power over
   them, that at his biding they executed dances before him.)

   a. Ashmedai (perhaps a Parsee name), Ashmodi, Ashmedon, or Shamdon, the
   king of the demons (Gitt. 68 a, b; Pes. 110 a). It deserves notice,
   that this name does not occur in the Jerusalem Talmud nor in older
   Palestinian sources. [6459] He is represented as of immense size and
   strength, as cunning, malignant, and dissolute. At times, however, he
   is known also to do works of kindness - such as lead the blind, or to
   show the road to a drunken man. Of course, he foreknows the future, can
   do magic, but may be rendered serviceable by the use of the Ineffable
   Name,' and especially by the signet of King Solomon, on which it was
   graven. The story of Solomon's power over him is well known and can
   here only be referred to in briefest outline. It is said, that as no
   iron was to be used in the construction of the Temple, Solomon was
   anxious to secure the services of the worm Shamir, which possessed the
   power of cutting stones (see about him Ab. z. 12 a; Sot. 48 b; Gitt. 68
   a, b). By advice of the Sanhedrin, Solomon conjured up for this purpose
   a male and a female Shed, who directed him to Ashmedai. The latter
   lived at the bottom of a deep cistern on a high mountain. Every morning
   on leaving it to go into heaven and hear the decrees of the Upper
   Sanhedrin, he covered the cistern with a stone, and sealed it. On this
   Benayah, armed with a chain, and Solomon's signet with the Ineffable
   Name, went and filled the cistern with wine, which Ashmedai, as all
   other spirits, hated. But as he could not otherwise quench his thirst,
   Ashmedai became drunk, when it was easy, by means of the magical
   signet, to secure the chain around him. Without entering on the story
   of his exploits, or how he indicated the custody of Shamir, and how
   ultimately the worm (which was in the custody of the moor-cock [6460] )
   was secured, it appears that, by his cunning, Ashmedai finally got
   released, when he immediately hurled Solomon to a great distance,
   assumed his form, and reigned in his stead; till at last, after a
   series of adventures, Solomon recovered his signet, which Ashmedai had
   flung away, and a fish swallowed. Solomon was recognised by the
   Sanhedrin and Ashmedai fled at sight of the signet. [Possibly the whole
   of this is only a parabolic form for the story of Solomon's spiritual
   declension, and final repentance.]

   b. Lilith, the queen of female spirits - to be distinguished from the
   Lilin or night-spirits, and from Lela or Laila, an Angel who
   accompanied Abraham on his expedition against Chedorlaomer (Sanh. 96
   a). Here we recognise still more distinctly the Parsee elements.
   Lillith is the queen of Zemargad' (Targ. on Job i. 15) - Zemargad'
   representing all green crystals, malachite, and emerald - and the land
   of Zemargad being Sheba.' Lillith is described as the mother of Hormiz
   or Hormuz [6461]   (Baba B. 73 a). Sometimes she is represented as a
   very fair woman, but mostly with long, wild-flowing hair, and winged
   (Nidd. 24 b; Erub. 100 b). In Pes. 111 a we have a formula for
   exorcising Lillith. In Pes 112 b (towards the end) we are told how
   Agrath bath Machlath (probably the Zend word Agra - smiting, very
   wicked' - bath Machlath the dancer') threatened Rabbi Chanina with
   serious mischief, had it not been that his greatness had been
   proclaimed in heaven, on which the Rabi would have shown his power by
   banning her from all inhabited places, but finally gave her liberty on
   the eve of the fourth day and of the Sabbath, which nights accordingly
   are the most dangerous seasons.

   3. Character and habits of the Shedim. As many of the Angels, so many
   of the Shedim, are only personifications. Thus, as diseases were often
   ascribed to thir agency, there were Shedim of certain diseases, as of
   asthma, croup, canine rabies, madness, stomachic diseases, &c. Again,
   there were local Shedim, as of Samaria, Tiberias, &c. On the other
   hand, Shedim might be employed in the magic cure of diseases (Shabb. 67
   a). In fact, to conjure up and make use of demons was considered lawful
   although dangerous (Sanh. 101 a), while a little knowledge of of the
   subject would enable a person to avoid any danger from them. Thus,
   although Chamath, the demon of oil, brings eruptions on the face, yet
   the danger is avoided if the oil is used out of the hollow of the hand,
   and not out of a vessel. Similarly, there are formulas by which the
   power of the demons can be counteracted. In these formulas, where they
   are not Biblical verses, the names of the demons are inserted. This
   subject will be further treated in another Appendix.

   In general, we may expect to find demons on water, oil, or anything
   else that has stood uncovered all night; on the hands before they have
   been washed for religious purposes, and on the water in which they have
   been washed; and on the breadcrumbs on the floor. Demons may imitate or
   perform all that the prophets or great men of old had wrought. The
   magicians of Egypt had imitated the miracles of Moses by demoniacal
   power (Shem. R. 9). So general at the time of our Lord was the belief
   in demons and in the power of employing them, that even Josephus (Ant.
   viii. 2. 5) contended that the power of conjuring up, and driving out
   demons, and of magical cures had been derived from King Hezekiah, to
   whom God had given it. Josephus declares himself to have been an
   eye-witness of such a wonderful cure by the repetition of a magical
   formula. This illustrates the contention of the Scribes that the
   miraculous cures of our Lord were due to demoniac agency.

   Legions of demons lay in waiting for any error or falling on the part
   of man. Their power extended over all even numbers. [6462] Hence, care
   must be had not to drink an even number of cups (Ber. 51 b), except on
   the Passover night, when the demons have no power over Israel (Pes. 109
   b). On the other hand, there are demons who might almost be designated
   as familiar spirits, who taught the Rabbis, Shed Joseph (Pes. 110 a)
   and the Shed Jonathan (Yeb. 122 a). Rabbi Papa had a young Shed to wait
   upon him (Chull. 105 b). There can, however, be no difficulty in making
   sure of their real existence. As Shedim have cock's feet, nothing more
   is required than to strew ashes by the side of one's bed, when in the
   morning their marks will be perceived (Ber. 6 a; Gitt. 68 b). It was by
   the shape of his feet that the Sanhedrin hoped to recognise, whether
   Ashmedai was really Solomon, or not, but it was found that he never
   appeared with his feet uncovered. The Talmud (Ber. 6 a) describes the
   following as an infallible means for actually seeing these spirits:
   Take the afterbirth of a black cat which is the daughter of a black cat
   - both mother and daughter being firstborn - burn it in the fire, and
   put some of the ashes in your eyes. Before using them, the ashes must
   be put into an iron tube, and sealed with an iron signet. It is added,
   that Rabbi Bibi successfully tried this experiment, but was hurt by the
   demons, on which he was restored to health by the prayers of the
   Rabbis. [6463]

   Other and kindred questions, such as those of amulets, &c., will be
   treated under demoniac possessions. But may we not here once more and
   confidently appeal to impartial students whether, in view of this
   sketch of Jewish Angelology and Satanology, the contention can be
   sustained that the teaching of Christ on this subject has been derived
   from Jewish sources?
     __________________________________________________________________

   [6439] The case supposed by the school of Shammai would, however, have
   been impossible, since, according to Rabbinic directions, a certain
   time must have elapsed between circumcision and baptism.

   [6440] The following notice from Josephus (Ant. xviii. 5. 2) is not
   only interesting in itself, but for the view which it presents of
   baptism. It shows what views rationalising Jews took of the work of the
   Baptist, and how little such were able to enter into the real meaning
   of his baptism. But to some of the Jews it appeared, that the
   destruction of Herod's army came from God, and, indeed, as a righteous
   punishment on account of what had been done to John, who was surnamed
   the Baptist. for Herod ordered him to be killed, a good man, and who
   commanded the Jews to exercise virtue, both as to righteousness towards
   one another, and piety towards God, and so to come to baptism. For that
   the baptizing would be acceptable to Him, if they made use of it, not
   for the putting away (remission) of some sins, but for the purification
   of the body, after that the soul had been previously cleansed by
   righteousness. And when others had come in crowds, for they were
   exceedingly moved by hearing these words, Herod, fearing lest such
   influence of his over the people might lead to some rebellion, for they
   seemed ready to do any thing by his council, deemed it best, before
   anything new should happen through him, to put him to death, rather
   than that, when a change should arise in affairs, he might have to
   repent,' &c. On the credibility of this testimony see the Article on
   Josephus, in Smith's Dictionary of Christian Biography,' vol. iii. pp.
   441-460 (see especially pp. 458, 459).

   [6441] This stream issued from under the throne of God, and is really
   the sweat of the living creatures' in their awe at the glory of God
   (Ber. R. 78).

   [6442] In Jer. Ber 2 c it is 50 years.

   [6443] See also Pes. 94 b.

   [6444] Some add the Cherubim as another and separate class.

   [6445] According to Jer Ber. ix. 1, the abode of the living creatures
   was to an extent of 515 years' journey, which is proved from the
   numerical value of the word {hebrew} straight' (Ezek. i. 7).

   [6446] On the controversy on the meaning of the name Metatron, whether
   it means under the throne, or behind the throne, or is the same as
   Meatator, divider, arranger, representative, we will not enter.

   [6447] Gabriel was also designated Itmon, because he stops up the sins
   of Israel (Sanh. 45 b).

   [6448] The names of the four Angel-Princes - Michael, Gabriel, Uriel,
   and Raphael - are explained in Bemid. R. 2.

   [6449] According to Jer. Ber. ix. 7 (p. 14 b), God only takes counsel
   with His Sanhedrin when He takes away, not when He giveth (Job i. 21) -
   and it is argued that, wherever the expression and Jehovah' occurs, as
   in the last clause of 1 Kings xxii. 23, it means God His Sanhedrin.

   [6450] Akhtariel - perhaps the crown of God' - seems to be a name given
   to the Deity (Ber. 7 a).

   [6451] It is said that Gabriel had proposed in this manner of deliver
   Abraham when in similar danger at the hands of Nimrod. And, although
   God had by His own Hand delivered the patriarch, yet Gabriel had
   obtained this as the reward of his proposal, that he was allowed to
   deliver the Three Children from the fiery furnace.

   [6452] See also the names of the five angels of destruction of whom
   Moses was afraid on his descent from the mount. Against three of them
   the three Patriarchs were to fight, God Himself being asked, or else
   proposing, to combat along with Moses against the other two (Sanh. R.
   41; 44)

   [6453] An analogous remark would apply to Jewish teaching about the
   good angels, who are rather Jewish elves than the high spiritual beings
   of the Bible.

   [6454] As a curious illustration how extremes meet, we subjoin the
   following from Jonathan Edwards. After describing how Satan, before his
   fall, was the chief of all the angels . . . nay, . . . the Messiah or
   Christ (!), as he was the Anointed, so that in the respect, Jesus
   Christ is exalted unto his place in heaven;' and that Lucifer or Satan,
   while a holy angel . . . was a type of Christ,' the great American
   divine explains his fall as follows: But when it was revealed to him,
   high and glorious as he was, that he must be a ministering spirit to
   the race of mankind which he had seen newly created, which appeared so
   feeble, mean, and despicable, of vastly inferior not only to him, the
   prince of the angels, and head of the created universe, but also to the
   inferior angels, and that he must be subject to one of that race which
   should hereafter be born, he could not bear it, This occasioned his
   fall' (Tractate on The Fall of the Angels,' Works, vol. ii. pp. 608,
   609, 610). Could Jonathan Edwards have heard of the Rabbinic legends,
   or is this only a strange coincidence? The curious reader will find
   much quaint information, though, I fear, little help, in Prof. W.
   Scott's vol. The Existence of Evil Spirits,' London, 1843.

   [6455] The Rabbis point out, how Eve had added to the words of God. He
   had only commanded them not to eat of the tree, while Eve added to it,
   that they were not to touch it. Thus adding to the words of God had led
   to the first sin with all the terrible consequences connected with it.

   [6456] In Ber R. 56 the accusation is stated to have been brought by
   the ministering angels.

   [6457] From the expression a son in his own likeness,' &c., it is
   inferred that his previous offspring during the 138 years was not in
   his likeness.

   [6458] The following Haggadah will illustrate both the power of the
   evil spirits at night and how amenable they are to reasoning. A Rabbi
   was distributing his gifts to the poor at night when he was confronted
   by the Prince of the Ruchin with the quotation Deut. xix. 34 (Thou
   shalt not remove thy neighbour's landmark'), which seemed to give the
   spirit' a warrant for attacking him. But when the Rabbi replied by
   quoting Prov. xxi. 14 (a gift in secret appeaseth wrath'), the spirit'
   fled in confusion (Jer. Peah viii. 9, p. 21 b).

   [6459] Hamburger ascribes this to the anxiety of the Palestinians to
   guard Judaism from Gnostic elements. We are, however, willing to
   recognise in it an indirect influence of Christianity.

   [6460] The Tarnegol Bera - a mythical animal reaching fron earth to
   heaven (Targ. on Ps. 1, 11) - also called Naggar Tura (Gitt. 68 b) from
   his activity in cleaving mountains.

   [6461] Hamburger renders it Ahriman, but it seems rather like Hormuzd.
   Perhaps the Rabbis wished to combine both. Ahriman is written Ahurmin,
   Sanh. 39 a, in that very curious notice of a controversy with a Mage.

   [6462] The superstition There's luck in odd numbers' has passed to all
   nations.

   [6463] Dr. Kohut's comparison of Rabbinic Angelology and Demonology
   with Parseeism (Ueber d. jud. Angelol u. Damonol. in ihrer Abhang. vom
   Parsismus) is extremely interesting, although not complete and its
   conclusions sometimes strained. The negative arguments derived from
   Jewish Angelology and Satanology by the author of Supernatural
   Religion' are based on inaccurate and uncritical information, and do
   not require detailed discussion.
     __________________________________________________________________

APPENDIX XIV.

   THE LAW IN MESSIANIC TIMES.

   (See Vol. i. Book III. ch. iii. p. 341.)

   THE question as to the Rabbinic views in regard to the binding
   character of the Law, and its imposition on the Gentiles, in Messianic
   times, although, strictly speaking, not forming part of this history,
   is of such vital importance in connection with recent controversies as
   to demand special consideration. In the text to which this Appendix
   refers it has been indicated, that a new legislation was expected in
   Messianic days. The ultimate basis of this expectancy must be sought in
   the Old Testament itself - not merely in such allusions as to the
   intrinsic worthlessness of sacrifices, but in such passages as Deut.
   xviii. 15, 18, and its prophetic commentary in Jer. xxxi. 31, &c. It
   was with a view to this that the Jewish deputation inquired whether
   John the Baptist was that Prophet.' For, as has been shown, Rabbinism
   associated certain reformatory and legislative functions with the
   appearance of the Forerunner of the Messiah (Eduy. viii. 7).

   There were, indeed, in this, as in most respects, diverging opinions
   according to the different standpoints of the Rabbis, and, as we infer,
   not without controversial bearing on the teaching of Christianity. The
   strictest tendency may be characterised as that which denied the
   possibilty of any change in the ceremonial Law, as well as the
   abrogation of festivals in the future. Even the destruction of the
   Temple. and with it the necessary cessation of sacrifices - if, indeed,
   which is a moot question, all sacrifices did at once and absolutely
   cease - only caused a gap; just as exile from the land could only free
   from such laws as attached to the soil of Israel. [6464] The reading of
   the sacrificial sections in the Law (Meg. 31 b; Ber. R. 44) - at any
   rate, in conjunction with prayers (Ber. 2 b), but especially study of
   the Law (Men. 110 a), took in the meantime the place of the sacrifices.
   And as regarded the most sacred of all sacrifices, that of the Day of
   Atonement, it was explained that the day rather than the sacrifices
   brought reconciliation (Sifra c. 8). This party held the principle that
   not only those Divine, but even those Rabbinic, ordinances, which
   apparently had been intended only for a certain time or for a certain
   purpose, were of eternal duration (Bezah 5 b). The law is never to
   cease; there are the commandments - since there is no prophet who may
   change a word in them.' [6465]

   So far were these views carried, that it was asserted: Israel needs not
   the teaching of the King Messiah,' but that He only comes to gather the
   dispersed, and to give to the Gentiles thirty commandments, as it is
   written (Zechar. xi. 12), "they weighed me my price, thirty pieces of
   silver"' (Ber. R. 98). But even these extreme statements seem to imply
   that keen controversy had raged on the subject. Besides, the most
   zealous defenders of the Law admitted that the Gentiles were to receive
   laws in Messianic times. The smallest and most extreme section held
   that, the laws, as Israel observed them, would be imposed on the
   Gentiles (Chull. 92 a); others that only thirty commandments, the
   original Noachic ordinances supposed to be enumerated in Lev. xix.,
   would become obligatory, [6466] while some held, that only three
   ordinances would be binding on the new converts: two connected with the
   Feast of Tabernacles, the third, that of the phylacteries (Midr. on Ps.
   xxxi. 1, ed. Warsh, p. 30 b). On the other hand, we have the most clear
   testimony that the prevailing tendency of teaching was in a different
   direction. In a very curious passage (Yalkut ii. 296, p. 46 a), in
   which the final restitution of the sinners of Israel and of the
   righteous of the Gentiles' who are all in Gehinnom, is taught in very
   figurative language, we are told of a new Law which God will give by
   the Messiah' in the age to come - thanksgiving for which calls forth
   that universal Amen, not only on earth but in Gehinnon, which leads to
   the deliverance of those who are in the latter. But as this may refer
   to the time of the final consummation, we turn to other passages. The
   Midrash on Song ii. 13, applying the passage in conjunction with Jer.
   xxxi. 31, expressly states that the Messiah would give Israel a new
   law, and the Targum, on Is. xii., 3, although perhaps not quite so
   clearly, also speaks of a new instruction.' It is needless to multiply
   proofs (such as Vayyikra R. 13). But the Talmud goes even further, and
   lays down the two principles, that in the age to come' the whole
   ceremonial Law and all the feasts were to cease. [6467] And although
   this may be regarded as merely a general statement, it is definitely
   applied to the effect, that all sacrifices except the thank-offering,
   and all fasts and feasts except the Day of Atonement, or else the Feast
   of Esther, were to come to an end - nay (in the Midr. on the words the
   Lord looseth the bound,' Ps. cxlvi. 7), that what had formerly been
   bound' or forbidden would be loosed' or allowed, notably that the
   distinctions between clean and unclean animals would be removed.

   There is the less need for apology for any digression here, that,
   besides the intrinsic interest of the question, it casts light on two
   most important subjects, For, first, it illustrates the attempt of the
   narrowest Judaic party in the Church to force on Gentile believers the
   yoke of the whole Law; the bearing of St. Paul in this respect; his
   relation to St. Peter; the conduct of the latter; and the proceedings
   of the Apostolic Synod in Jerusalem (Acts xv.). St. Paul, in his
   opposition to that party, stood even on Orthodox Jewish ground. But
   when he asserted, not only a new law of liberty,' but the typical and
   preparatory character of the whole Law, and its fulfillment in Christ,
   he went far beyond the Jewish standpoint. Further, the favorite modern
   theory as to fundamental opposition in principle between Pauline and
   Petrine theology in this respect, has, like many kindred theories, no
   support in the Jewish views on that subject, unless we suppose that
   Peter had belonged to the narrowest Jewish school, which his whole
   history seems to forbid. We can also understand, how the Divinely
   granted vision of the abrogation of the distinction between clean and
   unclean animals (Acts x. 9-16) may, though coming as a surprise, have
   had a natural basis in Jewish expectancy, [6468] and it explains how
   the Apostolic Synod, when settling the question, [6469] ultimately fell
   back on the so-called Noachic commandments, though with very
   wider-reaching principles underlying their decision (Acts xv. 13-21).
   Lastly, it seems to cast even some light on the authorship of the
   Fourth Gospel; for, the question about that prophet' evidently
   referring to the possible alteration of the Law in Messianic times,
   which is reported only in the Fourth Gospel, shows such close
   acquaintance with the details of Jewish ideas on this subject, as seems
   to us utterly incompatible with its supposed origination as The
   Ephesian Gospel' towards the end of the second century, the outcome of
   Ephesian Church-teaching - an esoteric and eclectic' book, designed to
   modify the impressions produced by the tradition previously recorded by
   the Synoptists.'
     __________________________________________________________________

   [6464] In the Book Cusari (ii. 49 ed. Cassel, p. 274) an inference
   somewhat inconvenient to Rabbinism is drawn from this. If, as it
   asserts Levitical uncleanness and holiness are correlative terms, the
   one implying the other, would it not follow that with the cessation of
   the Jewish economy the whole ceremonial Law would also cease? See
   Cassel's note.

   [6465] For further particulars I refer to Stein, Schrift des Lebens, i.
   pp. 319-336 (ch. on The Messiah'), to the article on the Messiah in
   Hamburger's Real-Encycl. ii. pp. 747, 748, and especially to that most
   interesting brochure of Rabbi Holdheim, Das Ceremonialges. im
   Messias-Reich. I have not read a more clear demonstration of the
   impossibility of Rabbinism, nor - strange as it may sound - a fuller
   vindication of the fundamental positions of Christianity.

   [6466] Stein, u.s. pp. 327, 328.

   [6467] Comp. on this Holdheim, Das Ceremonialges, p. 46.

   [6468] The learned reader will find a very curious illustration of this
   in that strange Haggadah about the envy of the serpent being excited on
   seeing Adam fed with meat from heaven - where another equally curious
   Haggadah is related to show that nothing is unclean which cometh down
   from heaven.'

   [6469] Yalkut i. 15, p. 4, d, towards the middle. A considerable part
   of vol. iii. of Supernatural Religion' is devoted to argumentation on
   this subject. But here also the information of the writer on the
   subject is neither accurate nor critical, and hence his reasoning and
   conclusions are vitiated.
     __________________________________________________________________

APPENDIX XV.

   THE LOCATION OF SYCHAR, AND THE DATE OF OUR LORD'S VISIT TO SAMARIA.

   (See vol. i. Book III ch. viii.)

   1. The Location of Sychar.

   Although modern writers are now mostly agreed on this subject, it may
   be well briefly to put before our readers the facts of the case.

   Till comparitively lately, the Sychar of St. John iv. was generally as
   representing the ancient Shechem. The first difficulty here was the
   name, since Shechem, or even Sichem, could scarcely be identified with
   Sychar, which is undoubtedly the correct reading. Accordingly, the
   latter term was represented as one of oppobrium, and derived from
   Shekhar' (in Aramæan Shikhra). as it were, drunken town,' or else from
   Sheqer' (in Aramæan Shiqra), lying town.' But, not to mention other
   objections, there is no trace of such as alteration of the name Sychar
   in Jewish writings, while its employment would seem wholly incongruous
   in such a narrative as St.John iv. Moreover, all the earliest writers
   distinguished Sychar from Shechem. Lastly, in the Talmud the name of
   Sokher, also written Sikhra, frequently occurs, and that not only as
   distinct from Schechem, but in a connection which renders the
   hypothesis of an opprobrious by-name impossible. Professor Delitzch
   (Zeitschrift für Luther. Theol. for 1856, ii pp. 242, 243) has
   collected seven passages from the Babylon Talmud to that effect, in
   five of which Sichra, is mentioned as the birthplace of celebrated
   Rabbis - the town having at a later period apparently been left by the
   Samaritans, and occupied by Jews (Baba Mez. 42 a, 83 a, Pes. 31 b,
   Nidd. 36 a, Chull. 18 b, and, without mention of Rabbis, Baba K 82 b
   Menach. 64 b. See also Men. x. 2, and Jer. Sheq. p. 48 d). If further
   proof were required, it would be sufficient to say that a woman would
   scarcely have gone a mile and a half from Shechem to Jacob's well to
   fetch water, when there are so many springs about the former city. In
   these circumstances, later writers have generally fixed upon the
   village of 'Askar, half a mile from Jacob's Well, and within sight of
   it, as the Sychar of the New Testament, one of the earliest to advocate
   this view having been the late learned Canon Williams. Little more than
   a third of a mile from 'Askar is the reputed tomb of Joseph. The
   transformation of the name Sychar into 'Askar is explained, either by a
   contraction of 'Ain 'Askar the well of Sychar,' or else by the fact
   that in the Samaritan Chronicle the place is called Iskar, which seems
   to have been the vulgar pronunciation of Sychar. A full description of
   the place is given by Captain Conder (Tent-Worker in Palestine, vol. i.
   pp. 71 &c., especially pp. 75 and 76), and by M. Guérin, La Samarie,'
   vol. i. p. 371, although the later writer, who almost always absolutely
   follows tradition, denies the identity of Sychar and Askar (pp. 401,
   402).

   II. Time of our Lord's Visit to Sychar.

   This question, which is of such importance not only for the chronology
   of this period, but in regard to the unnamed Feast at Jerusalem to
   which went up (St. John v.1), has been discussed most fully and
   satisfactorily by Canon Westcott (Speaker's Commentary, vol. ii. of the
   New Testament, p. 93) The following data will assist our inquires.

   1. Jesus spent some time after the Feast of Passover (St. John ii. 23)
   in the province of Judæa. But it can scarcely be supposed that this was
   a long period, for -

   2ndly, in St. John iv. 45 the Galileans have evidently a fresh
   remembrance of what had taken place at the Passover in Jerusalem, which
   would scarcely have been the case if a long period and other festivals
   had intervened. Similarly, the King's Offer' (St. John iv. 47) seems
   also to act upon a recent report.

   3rdly, the unnamed Feast of St. John v. 1 forms an important element in
   our computations. Some months of Galilean ministry must have intervened
   between it and the return of Jesus to Galilee. Hence it could not have
   been Pentecost. Nor could it have been the Feast of Tabernacles, which
   was in autumn, nor yet the feast of the Dedication, which took place in
   winter, since both are expressly mentioned by their names (St. John
   vii. 2, x. 22). The only other feasts were: the Feast of Wood-Offering
   (comp. The Temple,' &c., p. 295), the Feast of Trumpets, or New Year's
   Day, the Day of Atonement, and the feast of Esther, or Purim.

   To begin with the latter, since of late it has found most favor. The
   reasons against Christ's attendance in Jerusalem at Purim seem to me
   irrestible. Canon Westcott urges that the discourse of Christ at the
   unnamed Feast has not, as is generally the case, any connection with
   the thoughts of that festival. To this I would add, that I can scarcely
   conceive our Lord going up to a feast observed with such boisterous
   merriment as Purim was, while the season of the year in which it falls
   would scarcely tally with the statement of St. John v. 3, that a great
   multitude of sick people were laid down in the porches of Bethesda.
   [6470]

   But if the unnamed Feast was not Purim, it must have been one of these
   three, the Feast of the Ingathering of Wood, the Feast of Trumpets, or
   Day of Atonement. In other words, it must have taken place late in
   summer, or in the very begining of autumn. But if so, then the Galilean
   ministry intervening between the visit to Samaria and this Feast leads
   to the necessary inferences that the visit to Sychar had taken palce in
   early summer, probably about the middle or end of May. This would allow
   ample time for Christ's stay in Jerusalem during the Passover and for
   His Judæan ministry.

   As we are discussing the date of the unnamed Feast, it may be as well
   to bring the subject here to a close. We have seen that the only three
   Feasts to which reference could have been are to the Feast of Wood
   Offering, the Feast of Trumphets, and the Day of Atonement. But the
   last of those could not be meant, since it is disignated, not only by
   Philo, but in Acts xxvii. 9, as the fast,' not the feast nestea, not
   ort (comp. LXX., Lev. xiv. 29 &c., xxiii. 27 &c). As between the Feast
   of the Wood Offering and that of Trumphets I feel at considerable loss.
   Canon Westcott has urged on behalf on the latter reasons which I
   confess are very weighty. On the other hand, the Feast of Trumphets was
   not one of those on which people generally resorted to Jerusalem, and
   as it took place on the 1st of Tishri (about the middle of September),
   it is difficult to believe that anyone going up to it would not rather
   have chosen, or at least remained over, the Day of Atonement and the
   Feast of Tabernacles, which followed respectively, on the 10th and 15th
   days of that month. Lastly, the Feast of Wood Offering, which took
   place on the 15th Ab (in August), was a popular and joyus festival,
   when the wood needed for the altar was brought up from all parts of the
   country (comp. on that feast The Temple and its Services,' &c., pp.
   295, 296) As between these two feasts, we must leave the question
   undecided, only noticing that barely six weeks intervened between the
   one and the other feast.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [6470] I must here correct the view expressed in my book on The
   Temple,' p. 291, due to a misunderstanding of St. John iv. 35. Of
   course, if latter had implied that Jesus was at Sychar in December, the
   unnamed feast must have been Purim.
     __________________________________________________________________

APPENDIX XVI.

   ON THE JEWISH VIEWS ABOUT DEMONS' AND THE DEMONISED,' TOGETHER WITH
   SOME NOTES ON THE INTERCOURSE BETWEEN JEWS AND JEWISH CHRISTIANS IN THE
   FIRST CENTURIES.

    (See vol. i. Book III. ch. xiv.)

   IT is not, of course, our purpose here to attempt an exhaustive account
   of the Jewish views on demons' and the demonised.' A few preliminary
   strictures were, however, necessary on a work upon which writers on
   this subject have too implictly relied. I refer to Gfrörer's
   Jahrhundert des Heils (especially vol. i. pp. 378-424). Gfrörer sets
   out by quoting a passage in the Book of Enoch on which he lays great
   stress, but which critical inquiries of Dillmann and other scholars
   have shown to be of no value on the argument. This disposes of many
   pages of negative criticism on the New Testament which Gfrörer founds
   on this quotation. Similarly, 4 Esdras would not in our days be adduced
   in evidence of pre-Christian teaching. As regards Rabbinic passages,
   Gfrörer uncritically quotes from Kabalistic works which he mixes with
   quotations from the Talmud and from writings of a later date. Again, as
   regards the two quotations of Gfrörer from the Mishah (Erub. iv. 1;
   Gitt. vii. 1), it has already been stated (vol. i. p. 481, note 4) that
   neither of these passages bears any refernece to demoniac possesions.
   Further, Gfrörer appeals to two passages in Sifré which may here be
   given in extenso. The first of these (ed. Friedmann, p. 107 b) is on
   Duet. xviii. 12, and reads thus: He who joins himself (cleaves) to
   uncleanness, on him rests the spirit of uncleaness; but he who cleaves
   to the Shechinah, it is meet that the Holy Spirit should rest on him.'
   The second occurs in explanation of Deut. xxxii. 16, and reads as
   follows (u. s. p. 136 b): What is the way of a "demon" (Shed)? He
   enters into a man and subjects him.' It will be observed that in both
   these quotations reference is made to certian moral, not to a physical
   effects, such as in the case of the demonised. Lastly, although one
   passage from the Talmud which Gfrörer adduces (though not quite
   exactly) applies, indeed, to demonical possessions, but is given in an
   exaggerated and embellished form.

   If from these incorrect references we turn to what Jewish authorities
   really state on the subject, we have: -

   1. To deal with the Writings of Josephus. in Aniq. vi. 8. 2, Josephus
   ascribes Saul's disorder to demonic influence, which brought upon him
   such suffocations as were ready to choke him. In Antiq. viii. 2. 5,
   Josephus describes the wisdom, learning, and achievements of Solomon,
   referring specially to his skill in expelling demons who caused various
   diseases. According to Josephus Solomon had exercised this power by
   incantations, his formulae and words of exorcism being still known in
   Josephus's days. In such manner a certain Eleazar had healed a
   demoniac' in the presence of Vespasian, his officers, and troops, by
   putting to his nostrils a ring that held a root of one of those
   mentioned by Solomon,' by which the demon was drawn out amidst
   convulsions of the demoniac, when the demon was further adjured not to
   return by frequent mention of the name of Solomon, and by incantations
   which he [Solomon] had composed.' To show the reality of this, a vessel
   with water had been placed at a little distance, and the demon had, in
   coming out, overturned it. It is probably to this root' that Josephus
   refers in War. vii. 6. 3, where he names it Baaras, which I conjecture
   to be the equivalent of the form {hebrew}, boara, the burning,' since
   he describes it as of colour like a flame, and as emitting at even a
   ray like lightning, and which it would cost a man's life to take up
   otherwise than by certain magical means which Josephus specifies. From
   all this we infer that Josephus occupied the later Talmudical
   standpoint, alike as regards exorcism, magical cures, and magical
   preventions. This is of great importance as showing that these views
   prevailed in New Testament times. But when Josephus adds, that the
   demons expelled by Baaras were the spirits of the wicked,' he
   represents a superstition which is not shared by the earlier Rabbis,
   and may possibly be due to a rationalising attempt to account for the
   phenomenon. It is, indeed, true that the same view occurs in
   comparatively late Jewish writings, and that in Yalkuat on Is. 46 b
   there appears to be a reference to it, at least in connection with the
   spirits of those who had perished in the flood; but this seems to
   belong to a different cycle of legends.

   2. Rabbinic views. [6471] Probably the nearest approach to the idea of
   Josephus that demons' were the souls of the wicked, is the (perhaps
   allegorical) statement that the backbone of a person who did not bow
   down to worship God became a Shed, or demon (Baba K. 16 a; Jer. Shabb.
   3 b). The ordinary names for demons are evil spirits,' or unclean
   spirits' (ruach raah, [6472] ruach tumeah), Seirim (lit. goats). Shedim
   (Sheyda, a demon, male or female, either because their chief habitation
   is in desolate places, or from the word to fly about,' or else from to
   rebel'), and Mazzikin (the hurtful ones). A demoniac is called Gebher
   Shediyin (Ber. R. 65). Even this, that demons are supposed to eat and
   drink, to propagate themselves, and to die, distinguishes them from the
   demons' of the New Testament. The food of demons consists of certain
   elements in fire and water, and of certain odours. Hence the mode of
   incantation by incense made of certain ingredients. Of their origin,
   number, habitation, and general influence, sufficient has been said in
   the Appendix on Demonology. It is more important here to notice these
   two Jewish ideas: that demons entered into, or took possession of, men;
   and that many diseases were due to their agency. The former is
   frequently expressed. The evil spirit' constrains a man to do certain
   things, such as to pass beyond the Sabbath-boundary (Erub. 41 b), to
   eat the Passover-bread, &c. (Rosh ha-Sh. 28 a). But it reads more like
   a caustic than a serious remark when we are informed that these three
   thing deprive a man of his free will and make him transgress: the
   Cuthæans, an evil spirit, and poverty (Erub. u.s). Diseases - such as
   rabies, angina, asthma, or accidents - such as an encounter with a wild
   bull, are due to their agency, which, happily, is not unlimited. As
   stated in App. XIII. the most dangerous demons are those of dirty
   (secret) places (Shabb. 67 a). Even numbers (2, 4, 6, &c.) are always
   dangerous, so is anything that comes from unwashen hands. For such, or
   similar oversights, a whole legion of demons is on the watch (Ber. 51
   a). On the evening of the Passover the demons are bound, and, in
   general, their power has now been restricted, chiefly to the eves of
   Wednesday and of the Sabbath (Pes. 109 b to 112 b, passim). Yet there
   are, as we shall see, circumstances in which it would be foolhardiness
   to risk their encounter. Without here entering on the views expressed
   in the Talmud about prophecy, visions, and dreams, we turn to the
   questions germane to our subject.

   A. Magic and Magicians. We must here bear in mind that the practice of
   magic was strictly prohibited to Israelites, and that - as a matter of
   principle at least - witchcraft, or magic, was supposed to have no
   power over Israel, if they owned and served their God (Chull. 7 b;
   Nedar. 32 a). But in this matter also - as will presently appear -
   theory and practice did not accord. Thus, under certain circumstances,
   the repetition of magical formulas was declared lawful even on the
   Sabbath (Sanh. 101 a). Egypt was regarded as the home of magic (Kidd.
   49 b; Shabb. 75 a). In connection with this, it deserves notice that
   the Talmud ascribes the miracles of Jesus to magic, which He had
   learned during His stay in Eqypt having taken care, when He left, to
   insert under His skin its rules and formulas, since every traveller, on
   quitting the country, was searched, lest he should take to other lands
   the mysteries of magic (Shabb. 104 b).

   Here it may be interesting to refer to some of the strange ideas which
   Rabbinism attached to the early Christians, as showing both the
   intercourse between the two parties, and that the Jews did not deny the
   gift of miracles in the Church, only ascribing its exercise to magic.
   Of the existence of such intercourse with Jewish Christians there is
   abundant evidence. Thus, R. Joshua, the son of Levi (at the end of the
   second century), was so hard pressed by their quotations from the Bible
   that, unable to answer, he pronounced a curse on them, which, however,
   did not come. We gather, that in the first century Christianity had
   widely spread among the Jews, and R. Ishmael, the son of Elisha, the
   grandson of that High-Priest who was executed by the Romans (Josephus,
   War. i. 2. 2), seems in vain to have contended against the advance of
   Christianity. At last he agreed with R. Tarphon that nothing else
   remained but to burn their writings. It was this R. Ishmael who
   prevented his nephew Ben Dama from being cured of the bite of a serpent
   by a Christian, preferring that he should die rather than be healed by
   such means (Abod. Zar. 27 b, about the middle). Similarly, the great R.
   Eliezer ben Hyrcanus, also in the first century, was so suspected of
   the prevailing heresy that he was actually taken up as a Christian in
   the persecution of the later. Though he cleared himself of the
   suspicion, yet his contemporaries regarded him for a time doubtfully,
   and all agreed that the troubles which befell him were in punishment
   for having listened with pleasure to the teaching of the heretics (Ab.
   Z. 16 b, 17 a.) [6473] The following may be mentioned as instances of
   the magic practiced by these heretics. In Jer. Sanh. 25 d, we are told
   about two great Rabbis who were banned by a heretic to the beam of a
   bath. In return the Rabbis, by similar means, fastened the heretic to
   the door of the bath. Having mutually agreed to set each other free,
   the same parties next met on board a ship. Here the heretic by magical
   means clave the sea, by way of imitating Moses. On this the Rabbis
   called upon him to walk through the sea, like Moses, when he was
   immediately overwhelmed through the ban of R. Joshua! Other stories of
   a similar and even more absurd character might be quoted. But if such
   opinions were entertained of Jewish Christians, we can scarcely wonder
   that all their books were ordered to be burnt (Bemid. R. 9), that even
   a roll of the Law written by a heretic was to be destroyed (Gitt. 45
   b), and that Jewish Christians were consigned to eternal punishment in
   Gehinnon (Rosh. haSh. 17 a), from which even the token of circumcision
   should not deliver them since an Angel would convert it into
   uncircumcision (Shem R. 19 [6474] ).

   But to return. Talmudic writings distinguishing several classes of
   magicians. The Baal Obh, or conjuror of the dead, evoked a voice from
   under the armpit, or from other members of the dead body, the arms or
   other members being struck together, for the purpose of eliciting the
   sound. Necromancy might be practised in two different ways. The dead
   might be called up (by a method which scarcely bears description), in
   which case they would appear with the feet upwards. But this must not
   be practised on the Sabbath. Or again, a skull might, by magical means,
   be made to answer. This might be done on the Sabbath also (Sanh. 65 a
   and b). Or a demon might be conjured up by a certain kind of incense,
   and then employed in magic. A second class of magicians (called
   Yideoni) uttered oracles by putting a certain bone into their mouth.
   Thirdly, there was the Chabar, or serpent charmer, a distinction being
   made between a great and small Chabar, according as larger or smaller
   serpents were charmed. Fourthly, we have the Meonen, who could indicate
   what days or hours were lucky and unlucky. Fifthly, there was the
   searcher after the dead,' who remained fasting on graves in order to
   communicate with an unclean spirit; and, lastly, the Menachesh, who
   knew what omens were lucky and what unlucky (Sanh. 66 a). And if they
   were treated only as signs and not as omens, the practice was declared
   lawful (Chull. 95 b).

   In general the black art might be practised either through demons, or
   else by the employment of magical means. Among the latter we reckon,
   not only incantations, but magic by means of the thumb, by a knife with
   a black handle, or by a glass cup (Sanh. 67 b), or by a cup of
   incantation (Baba Mets. 29 b). But there was danger here, since, if all
   proper rules and cautions were not observed the magician might be hurt
   by the demon. Such an instance is related, although the Rabbi in
   question was mercifully perserved by being swallowed by a cedar, which
   afterwards burst and set him free (Sanh. 101 a). Women were specially
   suspected of witchcraft (Jer. Sanh. vii. 25 d), and great caution was
   accordingly enjoined. Thus, it might even be dangerous to lift up
   loaves of bread (though not broken pieces) lest they should be
   bewitched (Erub. 64 b). A number of instances are related in which
   persons were in imminent danger from magic, in some of which they
   suffered not only damage but death, while in others the Rabbis knew how
   to turn the impending danger against their would-be assailants. (Comp.
   for examples Pes. 110 b; Sot. 22 a; Gitt. 45 a; Sanh. 67 b). A very
   peculiar idea is that about the Teraphim of Scripture. It occurs
   already in the Targum Ps.-Jon. on Gen. xxxi. 19, and is found also in
   the Pirqé de R. Eliez. c. 36. It is stated that the Teraphim were made
   in the following manner: a first-born was killed, his head cut off, and
   prepared with salt and spices, after which a gold plate, upon which
   magical formulas had been graven, was placed under his tongue, when the
   head was supposed to give answer to whatever questions might be
   addressed to it.

   B. After this we can scarcely wonder, that so many diseases should have
   been imputed to magical or else demoniac influences, and cured either
   by magical means or by exorcism. For our present purpose we leave aside
   not only the question, whether and what diseases were regarded as the
   punishment of certain sins, but also all questions as to their magical
   causes and means of cure. We confine our remarks to the supposed power
   of evil spirits in the production of diseases. Four things are
   mentioned as dangerous on account of demons, of which we shall only
   mention three: To walk between two palm-trees, [6475] if the space is
   wider than four cubits; to borrow drinking-water; and to walk over
   water that has been poured out, unless it have been covered with earth,
   or spat upon, or you have taken off your shoes (Pes. 111 a). Similarly,
   the shadow of the moon, of certain trees, and of other objects, is
   dangerous, because demons love to hide there. Much caution must also be
   observed in regard to the water with which the hands are washed in the
   morning, as well as in regard to oil for anointing, which must never be
   taken from a strange vessel which might have been bewitched.

   Many diseases are caused by direct demoniac agency. Thus, leprosy
   (Horay. 10 a), rabies (Yoma 83 b), heart-disease (Gitt. 67 b), madness,
   asthma (Bechor. 44 b), croup (Yoma 77 b; Taan. 20 b), and other
   diseases, are ascribed to special demons. And although I cannot find
   any notices of demoniac possession in the sense of permanent
   indwelling, yet an evil spirit may seize and influence a person. The
   nearest approach to demoniac possession is in a legend of two Rabbis
   who went to Rome to procure the repeal of a persecuting edict, when
   they were met on board ship by a demon, Ben Temalion, whose offer of
   company they accepted, in hope of being able to do some miracle through
   him. Arrival in Rome, the demon took possession of the daughter of
   Cæsar. On this he was exorcised by the Rabbis (Ben Temalion, come out!
   Ben Temalion, come out'), when they were rewarded by the offer of
   anything they might choose from the Imperial Treasury, on which they
   removed from it the hostile decree (Meilah 17 b, about the middle).

   As against this one instance, many are related of cures by magical
   means. By the latter we mean the superstitious and irrational
   application of means which could in no way affect any disease, although
   they might sometimes be combined with what might be called domestic
   remedies. Thus, for a bad cold in the head this remedy is proposed:
   Pour slowly a quart of the milk of a white goat over three cabbage
   stalks, keep the pot boiling and stir with a piece of Marmehon-wood'
   (Gitt. 69 a, b). The other remedy proposed is the excrement of a white
   dog mixed with balsam. It need scarcely be said, that the more
   intractable the disease, the more irrational are the remedies proposed.
   Thus against blindness by day it is proposed to take of the spleen of
   seven calves and put it on the basin used by surgeons for bleeding.
   Next, some one outside the door is to ask the blind man to give him
   something to eat, when he is to reply: How can I open the door - come
   in and eat - on which the latter obeys, taking care, however, to break
   the basin, as else the blindness might strike him. We have here an
   indication of one of the favourite modes of healing disease - that by
   its transference to another. But if the loss of the power of vision is
   greater at night than by day, a cord is to be made of the hair of some
   animal, one end of which is to be tied to the foot of the patient the
   other to that of a dog. The children are to strike together pieces of
   crockery behind the dog, while the patient repeats these words: The dog
   is old and the cock is foolish.' Next seven pieces of meat are to be
   taken from seven different houses, and hung up on the doorposts, and
   the dog must afterwards eat the meat on a dunghill in an open place.
   Lastly, the cord is to be untied when one is to repeat: Let the
   blindness of M. the son of N. leave M. the son of N. and pierce the
   eyeballs of the dog!' (Gitt, 69 a).

   We have next to refer to strictly magical cures. These were performed
   by amulets - either preventive, or curative or disease - or else by
   exorcism. An amulet was regarded as probate, if three cures had been
   performed by it. In such case it might be put on even on the Sabbath.
   It consisted either of a piece of parchment (the Pithqa, Sanh. 78 b),
   on which certain magical words were written, or of small bundles of
   certain plants or herbs (also designated as Qemia, an amulet, Shabb. 61
   a; Kidd. 73 b). However, even probate amulets might fail, owing to the
   adverse constellation under which a person was. In any case the names
   and numbers of the demons, whose power it was wished to counteract,
   required to be expressly stated. Sometimes the amulet contained also a
   verse from the Bible. It need scarcely be said, that the other words
   written on the amulet had - at least, in their connection - little if
   any sensible meaning. But those learned in these arts and the Rabbis
   had the secret of discovering them, so that there was at least no
   mystery about them, and the formulas used were well known. If the
   mischief to be counteracted was due to demoniac agency, it might be
   prevented or removed by a kind of incantation, or by incantation along
   with other means, or in difficult cases by exorcism. As instances of
   the first we may quote the following. To ward off any danger from
   drinking water on a Wednesday or Sabbath-Evening, when evil spirits may
   rest on it, it is advised either to repeat a passage of Scripture in
   which the world Qol (Voice') occurs seven times (Ps. xxix. 3-9), or
   else to say this: Lul, Shaphan, Anigron, Anirdaphin - between the stars
   I sit, betwixt the lean and the fat I walk!' (Pes. 112 a). Against
   flatulence, certain remedies are recommended (such as drinking warm
   water), but they are to be accompanied by the following formula: Qapa,
   Qapa, I think of thee, and of thy seven daughters, and eight
   daughters-in-law!' (Pes. 116 a). Many similar prescriptions might be
   quoted. As the remedy against blindness has been adduced to point the
   contrast to the Savior's mode of treatment, it may be mentioned that
   quite a number of remedies are suggested for the cure of a bloody flux
   - of which perhaps wine in which Persian onions, or anise and saffron,
   or other plants have been boiled, seem the most rational - the
   medicament being, however, in each case accompanied by this formula: Be
   cured of thy flux!'

   Lastly, as regards incanation and exorcism, the formulas to be used for
   the purpose are enumerated. These mostly consist of words which have
   little if any meaning (so far as we know), but which form a rhyme or
   alliteration when a syllable is either omitted or added in successive
   words. The following, for example, is the formula of incantation
   against boils: Baz, Baziyah, Mas, Masiya, Kas, Kasiyah, Sharlai and
   Amarlai - ye Angels that come from the land of Sodom to heal painful
   boils! Let the colour not become more red, let it not farther spread,
   let its seed be absorbed in the belly. As a mule does not propagate
   itself, so let not this evil propagate itself in the body of M. the son
   of M.' (Shabb, 67 a). In other formulas the demons are not invoked for
   the cure, but threatened. We have the following as against another
   cutaneous disease: A sword drawn, and a sling outstretched! His name is
   not Yokhabh, and the disease stand still!' Against danger from the
   demon of foul places we have the following: On the head of the cast him
   into a bed of cresses, and beat him with the jawbone of an ass' (Shabb
   67 a). On the other hand, it is recommended as a precaution against the
   evil eye to put one's right thumb into the left hand and one's left
   thumb into the right hand, and to say: I, M. N. belong to the house of
   Joseph over whom the evil eye has no power' (Ber. 55 b). A certain
   Rabbi gave this as information derived from one of the chief of the
   witches, by which witchcraft might be rendered harmless. The person in
   danger should thus address the witches: Hot filth into your mouths from
   baskets with holes, ye witching women! Let your head become bald, and
   the wind scatter your breadcrumbs. Let it carry away your spices, let
   the fresh saffron which you carry in your hands be scattered. Ye
   witches, so long as I had grace and was careful, I did not come among
   you, and now I have come, and you are not favorable to me' (Pes. 110 a,
   b). To avoid the danger of two or more persons being separated by a
   dog, a palm-tree, a woman, or a pig, we are advised to repeat a verse
   from the Bible which begins and ends with the word El (Almighty)). Or
   in passing between women suspected of witchcraft it may be well to
   repeat this formula: Agrath, Azelath, Asiya, Belusiya are already
   killed by arrows.' Lastly, the following may be quoted as a form of
   exorcism of demons:'Burst, curst, dashed, banned be Bar-Tit, Bar-Tema,
   Bar-Tena, Chashmagoz, Merigoz, and Isteaham!'

   It has been a weary and unpleasant task to record such abject
   superstitions, mostly the outcome of contact with Parsee or other
   heathen elements. Brief though our sketch has been, we have felt as if
   it should have been even more curtailed. But it seemed necessary to
   furnish these unwelcome details in order to remove the possibility of
   comparing what is reported in the New Testament about the demonised'
   and demons' with Jewish notions on such subjects. Greater contrast
   could scarcely be conceived than between what we read in the New
   Testament and the views and practices mentioned in Rabbinic writings -
   and if this, as it is hoped, has been firmly established, even the
   ungrateful labor bestowed on collecting these unsavory notices will
   have been sufficiently repaid.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [6471] I would here generally acknowledge my obligations to Dr.
   Brecher's tractate on the subject.

   [6472] Erub. 41 b; Pes. 112 a. The more common designation is r.
   tumeah; but there are others.

   [6473] See more on this subject in vol. ii. pp. 193, 194.

   [6474] We have here only been able to indicate this most interesting
   subject. Much more remains to be said concerning Eliezer b. Hyrecanus,
   and others. There seem even to have been regular meeting-places for
   discussion between Jews and Christians. Nay, the practice of some early
   Christians to make themselves eunuchs is alluded to in the Talmud
   (Shabb. 152 a).

   [6475] In general palm-trees and their fruit are dangerous, and you
   should always wash your hands after eating dates.
     __________________________________________________________________

APPENDIX XVII.

   THE ORDINANCES AND LAW OF THE SABBATH AS LAID DOWN IN THE MISHNAH AND
   THE JERUSALEM TALMUD.

   (See Book III. ch. xxxv. in vol. ii. p. 52.)

   The terribly exaggerated views of the Rabbis, and their endless,
   burdensome rules about the Sabbath may best be learned from a brief
   analysis of the Mishnah, as further explained and enlarged in the
   Jerusalem Talmud. [6476] For this purpose a brief analysis of what is,
   confessedly, one of the most difficult tractates may here be given.

   The Mishnic tractate Sabbath stands at the head of twelve tractates
   which together from the second of the six sections into which the
   Mishnah is divided, and which treats of Festive Seasons (Seder Moed).
   Properly to understand the Sabbath regulations, it is, however,
   necessary also to take into account the second tractate in that
   section, which treats of what are called commixtures' or connections'
   (Erubin). Its object is to make the Sabbath Laws more bearable. For
   this purpose, it is explained how places, beyond which it would
   otherwise have been unlawful to carry things, may be connected
   together, so as, by a legal fiction, to convert them into a sort of
   private dwelling. Thus, supposing a number of small private houses to
   open into a common court, it would have been unlawful on the Sabbath to
   carry anthing from one of these houses into the other. This difficulty
   is removed if all the families deposit before the Sabbath some food in
   the common court, when a connection' is established between the various
   house, which makes them one dwelling. This was called the Erubh of
   Courts.' Similarly, an extension of what was allowed as a Sabbath
   journey' might be secured by another commixture,' the Erubh' or
   connection of boundaries.' An ordinary Sabbath day's journey extended
   2,000 cubits beyond one's dwelling. [6477] But if at the boundary of
   that journey' a man deposited on the Friday food for two meals, he
   thereby constituted it his dwelling, and hence might go on for other
   2,000 cubits. Lastly, there was another Erubh,' when narrow streets or
   blind alleys were connected into a private dwelling' by laying a beam
   over the entrance, or extending a wire or rope along such streets and
   alleyways. This, by a legal fiction, made them a private dwelling,' so
   that everything was lawful there which a man might do on the Sabbath in
   his own house.

   Without discussing the possible and impossible questions about these
   Erubin raised by the most ingenious casuistry, let us see how Rabbinism
   taught Israel to observe its Sabbath. In not less than twenty-four
   chapters, [6478] matters are seriously discussed as of vital religious
   importance, which one would scarcely imagine a sane intellect would
   seriously entertain. Through 64½ folio columns in the Jerusalem, and
   156 double pages of folio in the Babylon Talmud does the enumeration
   and discussion of possible cases, drag on, almost unrelieved even by
   Haggadah. [6479] The Talmud itself bears witness to this, when it
   speaks(no doubt exaggeratedly) of a certain Rabbi who had spent no less
   than two and a half years in the study of only one of those twenty-four
   chapters! And it further bears testimony to the unprofitableness of
   these endless discussions and determinations. The occasion of this is
   so curious and characteristic, that it might here find mention. The
   discussion was concerning a beast of burden. An ass might not be led
   out on the road with its covering on, unless such had been put on the
   animal previous to the Sabbath, but it was lawful to lead the animal
   about in this fashion in one's courtyard. [6480] The same rule applied
   to a packsaddle, provided it were not fastened on by girth and
   back-strap. Upon this one of the Rabbis is reported as bursting into
   the declaration that this formed part of those Sabbath Laws (comp.
   Chag. i. 8) which were like mountains suspended by a hair! (Jer. Shabb.
   p. 7, col. b, last lines). And yet in all these wearisome details there
   is not a single trace of anything spiritual - not a word even to
   suggest higher thoughts of God's holy day and its observance.

   The tractate on the Sabbath begins with regulations extending its
   provisions to the close of the Friday afternoon, so as to prevent the
   possiblity of infringing the Sabbath itself, which commenced on the
   Friday evening. As the most common kind of labour would be that of
   carrying, this is the first point discussed. The Biblical Law forbade
   such labour in simple terms (Ex. xxxvi. 6; comp. Jer. xvii.22). But
   Rabbinism developed the prohibition into eight special ordinances, by
   first dividing the bearing of a burden' into two separate acts -
   lifting it up and putting it down - and than arguing, that it might be
   lifted up or put down from two different places, from a public into a
   private, or from a private into a public place. Here, of course, there
   are discussions as to what constituted a private place' ({hebrew}); a
   public place' ({hebrew}); a wide space,' which belongs neither to a
   special individual or to a community, such as the sea, a deep wide
   valley, or else the corner of a property leading out on the road or
   fields, and, lastly, a legally free place.' [6481] Again, a burden'
   meant, as the lowest standard of it, the weight of a dried fig.' But if
   half a fig' were carried at two different times - lifted or deposited
   from a private into a public place, or vice versâ - were these two
   actions to be combined into one so as to constitute the sin of Sabbath
   desecration? And if so, under what conditions as to state of mind,
   locality, &c. ? And, lastly, how many different sins might one such act
   involve? To give an instance of the kind of questions that were
   generally discussed. the standard measure for forbidden food was the
   size of an olive, just as that for carrying burdens was the weight of a
   fig. If a man swallowed forbidden food of the size of half an olive,
   rejected it, and again eaten of the size of half an olive, he would be
   guilty, because the palate had altogether tasted food to the size of a
   whole olive; but if one had deposited in another locality a burden of
   the weight of a half a fig, and removed it again, it involved no guilt,
   because the burden was altogether only of half a fig, nor even if the
   first half fig's burden had been burnt and then a second half fig
   introduced. Similarly, if an object that was intended to be worn or
   carried in front had slipped behind it involved no guilt, but if it had
   been intended to be worn or carried behind, and it slipped forward,
   this involved guilt, as involving labor.

   Similar difficulties were discussed as to the reverse. Whether, if an
   object were thrown from a private into a public place, or the reverse.
   Whether, if an object was thrown into the air with the left, and caught
   again in the right hand, this involved sin, was a nice question, though
   there could be no doubt a man incurred guilt if he caught it with the
   same hand which it had been thrown, but he was not guilty if he caught
   it in his mouth, since, after being eaten, the object no longer
   existed, and hence catching with the mouth was as if it had been done
   by a second person. Again, if it rained, and the water which fell from
   the sky were carried, there was no sin in it; but if the rain had run
   down from a wall it would involve sin. If a person were in one place,
   and his hand filled with fruit  stretched into another, and the Sabbath
   overtook him in this attitude, he would have to drop the fruit, since
   if he withdrew his full hand from one locality into another, he would
   be carrying a burden on the Sabbath.

   It is needless to continue to analysis of this casuistry. All
   discussions to which we have referred turn only on the first of the
   legal canons in the tractate Sabbath.' They will show what a
   complicated machinery of merely external ordinances traditionalism set
   in motion; how utterly unspiritual the whole system was, and how it
   required no small amount of learning and ingenuity to avoid commiting
   grevious sin. In what follows we shall only attempt to indicate the
   leading points in the Sabbath-legislation of the Rabbis.

   Shortly before the commencement of the Sabbath (late on Friday
   afternoon) nothing new was to be begun; [6482] the tailor might no
   longer go out with his needle, nor the scribe with his pen; nor were
   clothes to be examined by lamp-light. A teacher might not allow his
   pupils to read, if he himself looked on the book. All these are
   pracautionary measures. The tailor or scribe carrying his ordinary
   means of employment, might forget the advent of the holy day; the
   person examining a dress might kill insects, [6483] which is strictly
   forbidden on the Sabbath, and the teacher might move the lamp to see
   better, while the pupils were supposed to be so zealous as to do this.

   These latter rules, we are reminded, were passed at a certain
   celebrated discussion between the schools of Hillel and Shammai, when
   the latter were in the majority. On that occasion also opposition to
   the Gentiles was carried to its farthest length, and their food, their
   language, their testimony, their presence, their intercourse, in short,
   all connection with them denounced. The school of Shammai also forbade
   to make any mixture, the ingredients of which would not be wholly
   dissolved and assimilated before the Sabbath. Nay, the Sabbath law was
   declared to apply even to lifeless objects. Thus, wool might not be
   dyed if the process was not completed before the Sabbath. Nor was it
   even lawful to sell anything to a heathen unless the object would reach
   its destination before the Sabbath, nor to give to a heathen workman
   anything to do which might involve him in Sabbath work. Thus, Rabbi
   Gamialiel was careful to send his linen to be washed three days before
   Sabbath. But it was lawful to leave olives or grapes in the olive or
   wine-press. Both schools were agreed that, in roasting or baking, a
   crust must have been formed before the Sabbath, except in case of the
   Passover lamb. The Jerusalem Talmud, however, modifies certain of these
   rules. Thus the prohibition of work to a heathen only implies, if they
   work in the house of the Jew, or at least in the same town with him.
   The school of Shammai, however, went so far as to forbid sending a
   letter by a heathen, not only a Friday or on a Thursday, but even
   sending on a Wednesday, or to embark on the sea on these days.

   It being assumed that the lighting of the Sabbath lamp was a law given
   to Moses on Mount Sinai, the Mishnah proceeds, in the second chapter of
   the tractate on the Sabbath, to discuss the substances of which
   respectively the wick and the oil may be composed, provided always that
   oil which feeds the wick is not put in a seperate vessel, since the
   removal of that vessel would cause the extinction of the lamp, which
   would involve a breach of the Sabbath law. But if the light were
   extinguished from fear of the Gentiles, of robbers, or of an evil
   spirit, or in order that one dangerously ill might go to sleep, it
   involved no guilt. Here, many points in casuistry are discussed, such
   as whether twofold guilt is incurred if in blowing out a candle its
   flame lights another. The Mishnah here diverges to discuss the other
   commandments, which, like that of lighting the Sabbath lamp, specially
   devolve on women, on which occasion the Talmud broaches some curious
   statements about the heavenly Sanhedrin and Satan, such as that it is
   in moments of danger that the Great Enemy brings accusations against
   us, in order to ensure our ruin; or this, that on three occasions he
   specially lies in ambush: when one travels alone, when one sleeps alone
   in a dark house, and when one crosses the sea. In regard to the latter
   we may note as illustrative of St. Paul's warning not to travel after
   the fast (Day of Atonement), that the Jewish proverb had it: When you
   bind your Lulabh [6484] (at the Feast of Tabernacles) bind also your
   feet' - as regards a sea-voyage (Jer. Shabb. 5 b, Ber. R. 6).

   The next two chapters in the tractate on the Sabbath discuss the manner
   in which food may be kept warm for the Sabbath, since no fire might be
   lighted. If the food had been partially cooked, or was such as would
   improve by increased heat, there would be temptation to attened to the
   fire, and this must be avoided. Hence the oven was immediately before
   the Sabbath only to be heated with straw or chaff; if otherwise, the
   coals were to be removed or covered with ashes. Clothes ought not to be
   dried by the hot air of a stove. At any rate, care must be taken that
   neighbours do not see it. An egg may not be boiled by putting it near a
   hot kettle, nor in a cloth, nor sand heated by the sun. Cold water
   might be poured on warm, but not the reverse (at least such was the
   opinion of the school of Shammai), nor was it lawful to prepare either
   cold or warm compresses. Nay, a Rabbi went so far as to forbid throwing
   hot water over one's self, for fear of spreading the vapour, or of
   cleaning the floor thereby! A vessel might be put under a lamp to catch
   the falling sparks, but no water might be put into it, because it was
   not lawful to extinguish a light. Nor would it have been allowed on the
   Sabbath to put a vessel to receive the drops of oil that might fall
   from the lamp. Among many other questions raised was this: whether a
   parent might take his child in his arms. Happily Rabbinic literally
   went so far as not only to allow this, but even in the supposed case
   that the child might happen to have a stone in its hands, although this
   would involve the labour of carrying that stone! Similarly, it was
   declared lawful to lift seats, provided they had not, as it were, four
   steps, when they must be considered as ladders. But it was not allowed
   to draw along chairs, as this might produce a rut of cavity, although a
   little carriage might be moved, since the wheels would only compress
   the soil but not produce a cavity (comp. on the Bab. Talmud, Shabb. 22
   a; 46; and Bets. 23 b).

   Again, the question is discussed, whether it is lawful to keep the food
   warm by wrapping around a vessel certain substances. Here the general
   canon is, that all must be avoided which would increase the heat: since
   this would be to produce some outward effect, which would be equivalent
   to work.

   In the fifth chapter of the tractate we are supposed to begin the
   Sabbath morning. Ordinarily, the first business of the morning would,
   of course, have been to take out the cattle. Accordingly, the laws are
   now laid down for ensuring Sabbath rest to the animals. The principle
   underlying these is, that only what serves as ornament, or is
   absolutely necessary for leading out or bringing back animals, or for
   safety, may be worn by them; all else is regarded as a burden. Even
   such things as might be put on to prevent the rubbing of a wound, or
   other possible harm, or to distinguish an animal, must be left aside on
   the day of rest.

   Next, certain regulations are laid down to guide the Jew when dressing
   on the Sabbath morning, so as to prevent his breaking its rest. Hence
   he must be careful not to put on any dress which might become
   burdensome, nor to wear any ornament which be might put off and carry
   in his hand, for this would be a burden.' A woman must not wear such
   headgear as would require unloosing before taking a bath, nor go out
   with such ornaments as could be taken off in the street, such as a
   frontlet, unless it is attached to the cap, nor with a gold crown, nor
   with a necklace or nose-ring, nor with rings, nor have a pin [6485] in
   her dress. The reason for this prohibition of ornaments was, that in
   their vanity women might take them off to show them to their
   companions, and then, forgetful to the day, carry them, which would be
   a burden.' Women are also forbidden to look in the glass on the
   Sabbath, because they might discover a white hair and attempt to pull
   it out, which would be a grievous sin; but men ought not to use
   looking-glasses even on weekdays, because this was undignified. A woman
   may walk about her own court, but not in the streets, with false hair.
   Similarly, a man was forbidden to wear on the Sabbath wooden shoes
   studded with nails, or only one shoe, as this would involve labour; nor
   was he to wear phylacteries nor amulets, unless, indeed, they had been
   made by competent persons (since they might lift them off in order to
   show the novelty). Similarly, it was forbidden to wear any part of a
   suit of armour. It was not lawful to scrape shoes, except perhaps with
   the back of a knife, but they might be touched with oil or water. Nor
   should sandals be softened with oil, because that would improve them.
   It was a very serious question, which led to much discussion, what
   should be done if the tie of a sandal had broken on the Sabbath. A
   plaster might be worn, provided its object was to prevent the wound
   from getting worse, not to heal it, for that would have been a work.
   Ornaments which could not easily be taken off might be worn in one's
   courtyard. Similarly, a person might go about with wadding in his ear,
   but not with false teeth nor with a gold plug in the tooth. If the
   wadding fell out of the ear, it could not be replaced. Some indeed,
   thought that its healing virtues lay in the oil in which it had been
   soaked, and which had dried up, but others ascribed them to the warmth
   of the wadding itself. In either case there was danger of healing - of
   doing anything for the purpose of a cure - and hence wadding might not
   be put into the ear on the Sabbath, although if worn before it might be
   contiinued. Again, as regarded false teeth: they might fall out, and
   the wearee might then lift and carry them, which would be sinful on the
   Sabbath. But anything which formed part of the ordinary dress of a
   person might be worn also on the Sabbath, and children whose ears were
   being bored might have a plug put into the hole. It was also allowed to
   go about on crutches, or with a wooden leg, and children might have
   bells on their dresses; but it was prohibited to walk on stilts, or to
   carry any heathen amulet.

   The seventh chapter of the tractate contains the most important part of
   the whole. It opens by laying down the principle that, if a person has
   either not known, or forgotten, the whole Sabbath law, all the breaches
   of it which he has committed during ever so many weeks are to be
   considered as only one error or one sin. If he has broken the Sabbath
   law by mistaking the day, every Sabbath thus profaned must be atoned
   for; but he has broken the law because he thought that what he did was
   permissible, then every seperate infirngment constitutes a seperate
   sin, although labors which stand related as species to the genus are
   regarded as only one work. It follows, that guilt attaches to the state
   of mind rather than to the outward deed. Next, forty less one chief or
   fathers' of work (Aboth) are enumerated, all of which are supposed to
   be forbidden in the Bible. They are: sowing, ploughing reaping, binding
   sheaves, threshing, winnowing, sifting (selecting), grinding, sifting
   in a sieve, kneading, baking; shearing the wool, washing it, beating
   it, dyeing it, spinning, putting it on the weaver's beam, making a
   knot, undoing a knot, sewing two stitches, tearing in order to sew two
   stitches; catching deer, killing; skinning, salting it, preparing its
   skin, scraping off its hair, cutting it up, writing two letters,
   scraping in order to write two letters; building, pulling down,
   extinguishing fire, lighting fire, beating with the hammer, and
   carrying from one possession into the other.

   The number thirty-nine is said to represent the number of times that
   the word labour' occurs in the Bibical text, and all these Aboth or
   fathers' of work are supposed to be connected with some work that had
   been done about the Tabernacle, or to be kindred to such work. Again,
   each of these principal works involved the prohibition of a number of
   others which were derived from them, and hence called their
   descendants' (toledoth). The thirty-nine principal works have been
   arranged in four groups: the first (1-11) referring to the preparation
   of bread; the second (12-24) to all connected with dress; the third
   (25-33) to all connected with writing; and the last (34-39) to all the
   work necessary for a private house. Another Rabbi derives the number
   thirty-nine (of these Aboth) from the numerical value of the initial
   word in Exod. xxxv. 1, although in so doing he has to change the last
   letter ({hebrew}, the {hebrew} must be changed into a {hebrew} to make
   thirty-nine). [6486] Further explanations must here be added. If you
   scatter two seeds, you have been sowing. In general, the principle is
   laid down, that anything by which the ground may be benefited is to be
   considered a work' or labour,' even if it were to sweep away or to
   break up a cold of earth. Nay, to pluck a blade of grass was a sin.
   Similarly, it was sinful labour to do anything that would promote the
   repening of fruits, such as to water, or even to remove a withered
   leaf. To pick fruit, or even to lift it from the ground, would be like
   reaping. If for example, a mushroom were cut, there would be twofold
   sin, since by the act of cutting, a new one would spring in its place.
   According to the Rabbis of Cæsarea, fishing, and all that put an end to
   life, must be ranked with harvesting. In connection with the conduct of
   the disciples in rubbing the ears of corn on the Sabbath, it is
   interesting to know that all work conected with food would be classed
   as one of the toledoth, of binding into sheaves. If a woman were to
   roll wheat to take away this husks, she would be guilty of sifting with
   a sieve. If she were rubbing the ends of the stalks, she would be
   guilty of threshing. If she were cleaning what adheres to the side of a
   stalk, she would be guilty of sifting. If she were brushing the stalk,
   she would be guilty fo grinding. If she were throwing it up in her
   hands, she would be guilty of winnowing. Distinctions like the
   following are made: A radish may be dipped into salt, but not left in
   it too long, since this would be to make pickle. A new dress might be
   put on, irrespective of the danger that in so doing it might be torn.
   Mud on the dress might be crushed in the hand and shaken off, but the
   dress must not be rubbed (for fear of affecting the material). If a
   person took a bath, opinions are divided, whether the whole body should
   be dried at once, or limb after limb. If water had fallen on the dress,
   some allowed the dress to be shaken but not wrung; other, to be wrung
   but not shaken. One Rabbi allowed to spit into the handkerchief, and
   that although it may necessitate the compressing of what had been
   wetted; but there is a grave discussion whether it was lawful to spit
   on the ground, and then to rub it with the foot, because thereby the
   earth may be scratched. It may, however, be done on stones. In the
   labour of grinding would be included such an act as crushing salt. To
   sweep, or to water the ground, would involve the same sin as beating
   out the corn. To lay on a plaster would be a grievous sin; to scratch
   out a big letter, leaving room for two small ones, would be a sin, but
   to write one big letter occupying the room of two small letters was no
   sin. To change one letter into another might imply a double sin. And so
   on through endles details!

   The Mishnah continues to explain that, in order to involve guilt, the
   thing carried from one locality to another must be sufficient to be
   entrusted for safekeeping. The quantity is regulated: as regards the
   food of animals, to the capacity of their mouth; as regards man, a
   dried fig is the standard. As regards fluids, the measure is as much
   wine as is used for one cup, that is, the measure of the cup being a
   quarter of a log, and wine being mixed with water in the poportion of
   three parts water to one of wine - one-sixteenth of a log. [6487] As
   regards milk, a mouthful; of honey, sufficient to lay on a wound; of
   oil, sufficient to anoint the smallest member; of water, sufficient to
   wet eyesalve; and of all other fluids, a quarter of a log.

   As regarded other substances, the standard as to what constituted a
   burden was whether the thing could be turned to any practical use,
   however trifling. Thus, two horse's hairs might be made into a
   birdtrap; a scrap of clean paper into a custom-house notice; a small
   piece of paper written upon might be converted into a wrapper for a
   small flagon. In all these cases, therefore, transport would involve
   sin. Similarly, ink sufficient to write two letters, wax enough to fill
   up a small hole, even a pebble with which you might aim at a little
   bird, or a small piece of broken earthenware with which you might stir
   the coals, would be burdens!'

   Passing to another aspect of the subject, the Mishanah lays it down
   that, in order to constitute sin, a thing must have been carried from
   one locality into another entirely and immediately, and that it must
   have been done in the way in which things are ordinarily carried. If an
   object which one person could carry is caried by two, they are not
   guilty. Finally, like all labour on the Sabbath, that of cutting one's
   nails or hair involves moral sin, but only if it is done in the
   ordinary way, otherwise only the lesser sin of the breach of the
   Sabbath rest. A very intersting notice in connection with St. John v.,
   is that in which it is explained how it would not involve sin to carry
   a living person on a pallet, the pallet being regarded only as an
   accessory to the man; while to carry a dead body in such manner, or
   even the smallest part of a dead body, would involve guilt.

   From this the Mishnah proceeds to discuss what is analogous to
   carrying, such as drawing or throwing. Other labours' are similarly
   made the subject of inquiry, and it is shown how any approach to them
   involves guilt. The rule here is, that anything that might prove of
   lasting character must not be done on the Sabbath. The same rule
   applies to what might prove the beginning of work, such as letting the
   hammer fall on the anvil; or to anything that might contribute to
   improve a place, to gathering as much wood as would boil an egg, to
   uprooting weeds, to writing two letters of a word - in short, to
   anything that might be helpful in, or contribute towards, some future
   work.

   The Mishnah next passes to such work in which not quantity, but
   quality, is in question - such as catching deer. Here it is explained
   that anything by which an animal might be caught is included in the
   prohibition. So far is this carried that, if a deer had run into a
   house, and the door were shut upon it, it would involve guilt, and
   this, even if, without closing the door, persons seated themselves at
   the entry to prevent the exit of the animal.

   Passing over the other chapters, which similarly illustrate what are
   supposed to be Biblical prohibitions of labour as defined in the
   thirty-nine Aboth and their toledoth, we come, in the sixteenth chapter
   of the tractate, to one of the most interesting parts, containing such
   Sabbath laws as, by their own admission, were imposed only by the
   Rabbis. These embrace: 1. Things forbidden, because they might lead to
   a transgression of the Biblical command; 2. such as are like the kind
   of labour supposed to be forbidden in the Bible; 3. Such as are
   regarded a sin compatible with the honour due to the Sabbath. In the
   first class are included a number of regulations in case of a fire. All
   portions of Holy Scripture, whether in the original or translated, and
   the case in which they are laid; the phylacteries and their case, might
   be rescued from the flames. Of food or drink only what was needful for
   the Sabbath might be resuced; but if the food were in a cupbord or
   basket the whole might be carried out. Similarly, all utensils needed
   for the Sabbath meal, but of dress only what was absolutely necessary,
   might be saved, it being, however, provided, that a person might put on
   a dress, save it, to go back and put on another, and so on. Again,
   anything in the house might be covered with skin so as to save it from
   the flames, or the spread of the flames might be areested by piling up
   vessels. It was not lawful to ask a Gentile to extinguish the flame,
   but not duty to hinder him, if he did so. It was lawful to put a vessel
   over a lamp, to prevent the ceiling from catching fire; similarly, to
   throw a vessel over a scorpion, although on that point there is doubt.
   On the other hand, it is allowed, if a Gentile has lighted a lamp on
   the Sabbath, to make use of it, the fiction being, however, kept up
   that he did it for himself, and not for the Jew. By the same fiction
   the cattle may be watered, or, in fact, any other use made of his
   services.

   Before passing from this, we should point out that it was directed that
   the Hagiographa should not be read except in the evening, since the
   daytime was to be devoted to more doctrinal studies. In the same
   connection it is added, that the study of the Mishnah is more important
   than that of the Bible, that of the Talmud being considered the most
   meritorious of all, as enabling one to understand all questions of
   right and wrong. Liturgical pieces, though containing the Name of God,
   might not be rescued from the flames. The Gospels, and the writings of
   Christians, or of hertics, might not be rescued. If it be asked what
   should be done with them on weekdays, the answer is, that the Names of
   God which they contain ought to be cut out, and then the books
   themselves burned. One of the Rabbis, however, would have had them
   burnt at once, indeed, he would rather have fled into an indolatrous
   temple than into a Christain church: for the idolators deny God because
   they have not known Him, but the apostates are worse.' To them applied
   Ps. cxxxix. 21, and, if it was lawful to wash out in the waters of
   jealousy the Divine Name in order to restore peace, much more would it
   be lawful to burn such books, even though they contained the Divine
   Name, because they led to enmity between Israel and their Heavenly
   Father.

   Another chapter of the tractate deals with the question of the various
   pieces of furniture - how far they may be moved and used. Thus,
   curtains, or a lid, may beregarded as furniture, and hence used. More
   interesting is the next chapter (xviii.), which deals with things
   forbidden by the Rabbis because they resemble those kinds of labour
   supposed to be interdicted in the Bible. Here it is declared lawful,
   for example, to remove quantities of straw or corn in order to make
   room for guests, or for an assembly of students, but the whole barn
   must not be emptied, because in so doing the floor might be injured.
   Again, as regards animals, some assistance might be given if an animal
   was about to have its young, though not to the same amount as to a
   woman in childbrith, for whose sake the Sabbath might be desecrated.
   Lastly, all might be done on the holy day needful for circumcision. At
   the same time, every preparation possible for the service should be
   made the day before. The Mishnah proceeds to enter here on details not
   necessarily connected with the Sabbath law.

   In the following chapter (xx.) the tractate goes on to indicate such
   things as are only allowed on the Sabbath on condition that they are
   done differently from ordinary days. Thus, for example, certain
   solutions ordinarily made in water should be made in vinegar. The food
   for horses or cattle must not be taken out of the manger, unles it is
   immediately given to some other animal. The bedding straw must not be
   turned with hand, but with other part of the body. A press in which
   linen is smoothed may be opened to take out napkins, but must not be
   screwed down again, &c.

   The next chapter proceeds upon the principle that, although everything
   is to be avoided which resembles the labours referred to in the Bible,
   the same prohibition does not apply to such labours as resemble those
   inderdicted by the Rabbis. The application of this principle is not,
   however, of interst to general readers.

   In the twenty-second chapter the Mishnah proceeds to show that all the
   precautions of the Rabbis had only this object: to prevent an ultimate
   breach of a Biblical prohibition. Hence, where such was not to be
   feared, an act might be done. For example, a person might bathe in
   mineral waters, but not carry home the linen with which he had dried
   himself. He might anoint and rub the body, but not to the degree of
   making himself tired; but he might not use any artifical remedial
   measures, such as taking a shower-bath. Bones might not be set, nor
   emetics given, nor any medical or surgical operation performed.

   In the last two chapters the Mishnah points out those things which are
   unlawful as derogatory to the dignity of the Sabbath. Certain things
   are here of interest as bearing on the quesion of purchasing things for
   the feast-day. Thus, it is expressly allowed to borrow wine, or oil, or
   bread on the Sabbath, and to leave one's upper garment in pledge,
   though one should not express it in such manner as to imply it was a
   loan. Moreover, it is expressly added that if the day before the
   Passover falls on a Sabbath, one may in this manner purchase a Paschal
   lamb, and, presumably, all else that is needful for the feast. This
   shows how Judas might have been sent on the eve of the Passover to
   purchase what was needful, for the law applying to a feast-day was much
   less strict than that of the Sabbath. Again, to avoid the possibility
   of effacing anything written, it was forbidden to read from a tablet
   the names of one's guests, or the menu. It was lawful for children to
   cast lots for their portions at table, but not with strangers, for this
   might lead to a breach of the Sabbath, and to games of chance.
   Similarly, it was improper on the Sabbath to engage workmen for the
   following week, nor should one be on the watch for the close of that
   day to begin one's ordinary work. It was otherwise if religious
   obligations awaited one at the close of the Sabbath such as attending
   to a bride, or making preparation for a funeral. [6488] On the Sabbath
   itself it was lawful to do all that was absolutely necessary connected
   with the dead, such as to anoint or wash the body, although without
   moving the limbs, nor might  the eyes of the dying be closed - a
   practice which, indeed, was generally denounced.

   In the last chapter of the tractate the Mishnah returns to the
   discussion of punctilious details. Supposing a traveller to arrive in a
   place just as the Sabbath commenced, he must only take from his beast
   of burden such objects are are allowed to be handled on the Sabbath .
   As for the rest, he may loosen the ropes and let them fall down of
   themselves. Further, it is declared lawful to unloose bundles of straw,
   or to rub up what can only be eaten in that condition; but care must be
   taken that nothing is done which is not absolutely necessary. On the
   other hand, cooking would not be allowed - in short, nothing must be
   done but what was absolutely necessary to satisfy the cravings of
   hunger or thist. Finally, it was declared lawful on the Sabbath to
   absolve from vows, and to attend to similiar religious calls.

   Detailed as this analysis of the Sabbath law is, we have not by any
   means exhusted the subject. Thus, one of the most curious provisions of
   the Sabbath law was, that on the Sabbath only such things were to be
   touched or eaten as had been expressly prepared on a weekday with a
   view to the Sabbath (Bez. 2 b). [6489] Anything not so destined was
   forbidden, as the expression is on account of Muqtsah' ({hebrew}), i.
   e. as not having been the intention.' Jewish dogmatists enumerate
   nearly fifty cases in which that theological term finds its
   application. Thus, if a hen had laid on the Sabbath, the egg was
   forbidden, because, evidently, it could not have been destined on a
   weekday for eating, since it was not yet laid, and did not exist; while
   if the hen had been kept, not for laying but for fattening, the egg
   might be eaten as forming a part of the hen that had fallen off! But
   when the principle of Muqtsah is applied to the touching of things
   which are not used because they have become ugly (and hence are not in
   one's mind), so that, for example, an old lamp may not be touched, or
   raisins during the process of drying them (because they are not eatable
   then), it will be seen how complicated such a law must have been.

   Chiefly from other tractates of the Talmud the following may here be
   added. It would break the Sabbath rest to climb a tree, to ride, to
   swim, to clap one's hands, to strike one's side, or to dance. All
   judicial acts, vows, and tilling were also prohibited on that day (Bez.
   v. 2). It has already been noted that aid might be given or promised
   for a woman in her bed. But the Law went further. While it prohibited
   the application or use on the Sabbath of any remedies that would bring
   improvement or cure to the sick, all actual danger to life,' ({hebrew},
   Yoma vii. 6) superseded the Sabbath law, but nothing short of that.
   Thus, to state an extreme case, if on the Sabbath a wall had fallen on
   a person, and it were doubtful whether he was under the ruins or not,
   whether he was alive or dead, a Jew or Gentile, it would be duty to
   clear away the rubbish sufficiently to find the body. If life were not
   extinct the labour would have to be continued; but if the person were
   dead nothing further should be done to extricate the body. Similarly, a
   Rabbi allowed the use of remedies on the Sabbath in throat diseases, on
   the express ground that he regarded them as endangering life. On a
   similar principle a woman with child or a sick person was allowed to
   break even the fast of the Day of Atonement, while one who had a
   maniacal attack of morbid craving for food ({hebrew}) = bolimos might
   on that sacred day have even unlawful food (Yoma viii. 5, 6).

   Such are the leading provisions by which Rabbinism enlarged the simple
   Sabbath-law as expressed in the Bible, [6490] and, in its anxiety to
   ensure its most exact observance, changed the spiritual import of its
   rest into a complicated code of external and burdensome ordinances.
   Shall we then wonder at Christ's opposition to the Sabbath-ordinances
   of the Synagogue, or, on the other hand, at the teaching of Christ on
   this subject, and that of his most learned and most advanced
   contemporaries? And whence this difference unless Christ was the
   Teacher come from God,' Who spake as never before man had spoken?
     __________________________________________________________________

   [6476] The Jerusalem Talmud is not only the older and the shorter of
   the two Gemaras, but would represent most fully the Palestinian ideas.

   [6477] On the Sabbath-journey, and the reason for fixing it at a
   distance of 2,000 cubits, see Kitto's Cyclop. (last ed.) Sabbath-way,'
   and The Temple and its Services,' p. 148.

   [6478] In the Jerusalem Talmud a Gemara is attached only to the first
   twenty chapters of the Mishnic tractate Shabbath; in the Babylon Talmud
   to all the Twenty-four chapters.

   [6479] I have counted about thirty-three Haggadic pieces in the
   tractate.

   [6480] In the former case it might be a burden or lead to work, while
   in the latter case the covering was presumably for warmth.

   [6481] Such a free place ({hebrew}) must cover less than four square
   cubits - for ex., a pillar would be such. To this no legal
   determination would apply. The wide space' is called Karmelith
   ({hebrew}). The Mishnah, however, expressly mentions only the private'
   and the public' place (or enclosed' and open'), although the Karmeilth
   was in certain circumstances treated as public,' in others as private'
   property. The explanation of the terms and legal definitions is in Jer.
   Shabb. 12 d; 13 a; Shabb. 6, a, b; Toseft. Shabb. 1.

   [6482] Here such questions are raised as what constitutes the
   beginning, for ex., of shaving or a bath.

   [6483] To kill such vermin is, of course, strictly forbidden (to kill a
   flea is like a camel). Rules are given how to dispose of such insects.
   On the same occasion some curious ideas are broached as to the
   transformation of animals, one into another.

   [6484] The Lulabh ({hebrew}) consisted of a palm with myrtle and willow
   branch tied on either side of it, which every worshipper carried on the
   Feast of Tabernacles (Temple and its Services,' p. 238).

   [6485] Literally, a needle which has not an eyelet. Of course, it would
   not be lawful for a modern Jew - if he observe the Rabbinic Law - to
   carry a stick or a pencil on the Sabbath, to drive, or even to smoke.

   [6486] The Rabbis contend for the lawfullness of changing the {hebrew}
   into a {hebrew} for the sake of an interpretation. So expressly here.
   (Jer. Shabb. 9 b) and in Jer. Peah 20 b ({hebrew} into {hebrew} in Lev.
   xix. 24).

   [6487] It has been calculated by Herzfeld that a log = 0.36 of a litre;
   six hen's eggs.'

   [6488] It is curious as bearing upon a recent controversy, to note that
   on this occasion it is said that an Israelite may be buried in the
   coffin and grave originally destined for a Gentile, but not vice versâ.

   [6489] This destination or preparation is called Hachanah.

   [6490] Ex. xx. 8--11; xxiii. 12-17; xxxiv. 1-3; Deut. v. 12-15.
     __________________________________________________________________

APPENDIX XVIII.

   HAGGADAH ABOUT SIMEON KEPHA (LEGEND OF SIMON PETER.)

   ({hebrew})

   (Vol. ii. Book III. ch. xxxviii.)

   THIS Haggadah exists in four different Recensions (comp. Jellinek, Beth
   ha-Midrash, Pt. V. and Pt. VI., pp. ix. x). The first of these,
   reproduce by Jellinek (u. s. Pt. V. p. xxvi. &c., and pp. 60-62) was
   first published by Wagenseil in his collection of Antichristian
   writings, the Tela Ignea Satanæ, at the close that blasphemous
   production, the Sepher Toledoth Jeshu (pp. 19-24). The second Recension
   is that by Huldrich (Leyden 1705); the third has been printed, as is
   inferred, at Breslau in 1824; while the fourth exists only in MS. Dr.
   Jellinek has substantially reproduced (without the closing sentences)
   the text of Wagenseil's (u. s. Pt. V.), and also Recensions III. and
   IV. (u. s. Pt. VI.). He regards Recension IV. as the oldest; but we
   infer from its plea against the abduction of Jewish children by
   Christians and against forced baptisms, as well as from the use of
   certain expressions, that Recension IV. is younger than the text of
   Waggenseil, which seems to present the legend in its most primitive
   form. Even this, however, appears a mixture of several legends; or
   perhaps the original may afterwards have been interpolated. It were
   impossible to fix even approximately the age of this Christianity in
   Rome, and that of the Papacy, though it seems to contain older
   elements. It may be regarded as embodying certain ancient legends among
   the Jews about St. Peter, but adapted to later times, and cast in an
   apologetic form. A brief criticism of the document will best follow an
   abstract of the text, according to the first or earlier Recension.

   The text begins by a notice that the strife between the Nazarenes and
   the Jews had grown to such proportions that they separated, since any
   Nazarene who saw a Jew would kill him. Such became the misery for
   thirty years, that the Nazarenes increased to thousands and myriads,
   and prevented the Jew from going up to the feast of Jerusalem. And
   distress was as great as at the time of the Golden Calf. And still the
   opposing faith increased, and twelve wicked men went out, who traversed
   the twelve kingdoms. And they prophesied false phophecies in the camp,
   and they misled Israel, and they were men of reputation, and
   strengthened the faith of Jesus, for they said that they were the
   Apostles of the Crucified. And they drew to themselves a large number
   from among the children of Israel. On this the text describes, how the
   sages in Israel were afflicted and humbled themselves, each confessing
   to his neighbour the sins which had brought this evil, and earnestly
   asking of God to give them direction how to arrest the advance of
   Nazarene doctrine and persecution. As they finished their prayer, up
   rose an elder from their midst, whose name was Simeon Kepha, who had
   formerly put into requisition the Bath Kol and said: Hearken to me, my
   brethren and my people! If my words are good in your sight, I will
   separate those sinners from the congregation of the children of Israel,
   and they shall have neither part nor inheritance in the midst of
   Israel, if only you take upon you the sin. And they all answered and
   said: We will take upon us the sin, if only thou wilt do what thou hast
   said.' Upon this, the narrative proceeds, Peter went into the
   Sanctuary, wrote the Ineffable Name, and inserted it in his flesh.
   Having learnt the Ineffable Name, he went to the metropolis
   (metroplin') of the Nazarenes, and proclaimed that every believer in
   Christ should come to him, since he was an Apostle. The multitudes
   required thathe should prove his claim by a sign (oth') such as Jesus
   had done while He was alive, when Peter, through the power of the
   Ineffable Name, restored a leper, by laying on of hands, and raised the
   dead. When the Nazarenes saw this, they fell on their faces, and
   acknowledged his Apostolate. Then Peter delivered this as his message,
   first bidding them swear to do as he would command: know (said he) that
   the Crucified hated Israel and their law, as Isaiah prophesied: "Your
   new moons and your feasts my soul hateth;" know also, that he
   delighteth not in Israel, as Hosea prophesied, "You are not my people."
   And although it is in His power to extripate them from the world in a
   moment, from out of every place, yet He does not purpose to destroy
   them, but intends to leave them, in order that they be in memory of His
   Crucifixion and lapidation to all generations. Besides, know that He
   bore all those great sufferings and afflictions to redeem you from
   Gehemma. And now He admonishes and commands you, that you should do no
   evil to the Jews: and if a Jews says to a Nazarene, "Go with me one
   parasang" (Persian mile about three English miles), let him go with him
   two parasangs. And if a Jew smites him on the left check, let him
   present to him also the right cheek, in order that they may have their
   reward in this world, while in the next they will be punished in
   Gehenna. And if you do thus, you will deserve to sit with Him in Feast
   of the Passover, but observe the day of His death. And instead of the
   Feast of Pentecost observe the forty days from the time that He was
   slain to when He went up into heaven. And instead of the Feast of
   Tabernacles observe the day of His birth, and on the eighth day after
   His birth observe that on which He was circumcised.'

   To these commands all agreed, on condition that Peter should remain
   with them. This he consented to do, on the understanding that he would
   not eat anything except bread of misery and water of affliction -
   presumably not only to avoid forbidden food, but in expiatory suffering
   for his sin - and that they should build him a tower in the midst of
   the city, in which he would remain unto the day of his death, all which
   provisions were duly carried out. It is added, that in this tower he
   served the God of his fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. What is still
   stranger, it is added, that he wrote many Piutim, a certain class of
   liturgical poems which form apart of the Synagogue service - and that
   he sent these throughout all Israel to be in perpetual memory of him,
   and especially that he despatched them to the Rabbis. The remark is the
   more noteworthy, as other Jewish writers also describe the Apostle
   Peter as the author of several liturgical poems, of which one is still
   repeated in the Synagogue on Sabbaths and Feast-days (comp. Jellinek,
   Beth ha-Midr., part v., p. 61, note). But to return. Peter is said to
   have remained in that tower for six years, when he died, and by his
   direction was buried within the tower. But the Nazarenes raised there a
   great fabric, and this tower may be seen in Rome, and they call it
   Peter, which is the word for a stone, because he sat on a stone till
   the day of his death. But after his death another person named Elijah
   came, in the wickedness and cunning of his heart to mislead them. And
   he said to them Simon had deceived them, for that Jesus had commanded
   him to tell them: it had not come into His heart to despise the Law of
   Moses; that if any one wished to circumcise, he should circumcise; but
   if any one did not wish to be circumcised, let him be immersed in foul
   waters. And even if he were not immersed, he would not thereby be in
   danger in the world. And he commanded that they should not observe the
   seventh day, but only the first day, because on it were created the
   heavens and the earth. And he made to them many statutes which were not
   good. But the people asked him: Give us a true sign that Jesus hath
   sent thee. And he said to them: What is the sign that you seek? And the
   word had not been out of his own mouth when a great stone of immense
   weight fell and crushed his head. So perish all Thine enemies, O God,
   but let them that love Thee be as the sun when he goeth forth in his
   strength!'

   Thus far what we regard as the oldest Recension. The chief variations
   between this and the others are, that in the third Recension the
   opponent of Peter is called Abba Shaul (St. John also is mentioned;
   Jellinek, u. s. part vi., p. 156), while in the fourth Recension (in
   MS.), which consists of nineteen chapters, this opponent is called
   Elijah. In the latter Recension there is mention of Antioch and
   Tiberias, and other places connected with the lives of St. Peter and
   St. Paul, and the early history of the Church. But the occurence of
   certain Romanic words, such as Papa, Vescova, &c., shows its later
   date. Again, we mark that, according to Recensions III. and IV., Peter
   sent his liturgical pieces to Babylon, which may either indicate that
   at the time of the document Babylon' was the centre of the Jewish
   population, or else be a legendary reminiscence of St. Peter's labours
   in the Church that is in Babylon' (1 Pet. v. 13). In view of modern
   controversies it is of special interest that, according to the Jewish
   legend, Peter, secretly a Jew, advised the Christians to throw off
   completely the law of Moses, while Paul, in opposition to him, stands
   up for Israel and the Law, and insists that either circumcision or
   baptism may be practised. It will be further noted, that the object of
   the document seems to be: 1st, to serve as an apology' for Judaism, by
   explaining how it came that so many Jews, under the leadership of
   Apostles, embraced the new faith. This seems to be traced to the
   continued observance of Jewish legal practices by the Christians. Simon
   Peter is supposed to have arrested the progress of Christianity by
   separating the Church from the Synagogue, which he did by proclaiming
   that Israel were rejected, and the Law of Moses abolished. On the other
   hand, St. Paul is represented as the friend of the Jews, and as
   proclaiming that the question of circumcision or baptism, of legal
   observances or Christian practices, was a matter of influences. This
   attempt to heal the breach between the Church and the Synagogue had
   been the cause of Divine judgment on him. 2ndly, The legend is intended
   as an apology for the Jews, with a view to ward off persecution. 3rdly,
   It is intended to show that the leaders of the Christians remained in
   heart Jews. It will perhaps not be difficult - at least, hypothetically
   - to separate the various legends mixed up, or perhaps interpolated in
   the tractate. From the mention of the Piutim and the ignorance as to
   their origin, we might be disposed to assign the composition of the
   legend in its present form to about the eighth century of our era.
     __________________________________________________________________

APPENDIX XIX.

   ON ETERNAL PUNISHMENT, ACCORDING TO THE RABBIS AND THE NEW TESTAMENT

   (See vol. ii. Book V. ch. vi.)

   THE Parables of the Ten Virgins' and of the Unfaithful Servant' close
   with a Discourse on the Last Things,' the final Judgment, and the fate
   of those Christ's Righ Hand and at His Left (St. Matt. xxv. 31-46).
   This final Judgment by our Lord forms a fundamental article in the
   Creed of the Church. It is the Christ Who comes, accompanied by the
   Angelic Host, and sits down on the throne of His Glory, when all
   nations are gathered before Him. Then the final separation is made, and
   joy or sorrow awarded in accordance with the past of each man's
   history. And that past, as in relationship to the Christ - whether it
   have been with' Him or not with' Him, which latter is now shown to be
   equivalent to an against' Him. And while, in the deep sense of a love
   to Christ which is utterly self-forgetful in its service and utterly
   humble in its realisation to Him to Whom no real service can be done by
   man, to their blessed surprise, those on the Right' find work and
   acknowledgement where they had never thought of its possibility, every
   ministry of their life, however small, is now owned of Him as rendered
   to Himself - partly, because the new direction, from which all such
   ministry sprang, was of Christ in' them, and partly, because of the
   indentification of Christ with His people. On the other hand, as the
   lowest service of him who has the new inner direction if Christward, so
   does ignorance, or else ignoration, of Christ (When saw we Thee. . .
   .?') issue in neglect of service and labour of love, and neglect of
   service proceed from neglect and rejection of Christ. And so is life
   either to' Christ or not to' Christ, and necessarily ends in the
   Kingdom prepared from the foundation of the world' or in the eternal
   fire which is prepared for the Devil and his angels.'

   Thus far the meaning of the Lord's Words, which could only be impaired
   by any attempt at commentation. But they also raise questions of the
   deepest importance, in which not only the head, but perhaps much more
   the heart, is interested, as regards the precise meaning of the term
   everlasting' and eternal' in this and other connections, so far as
   those on the Left Hand of Christ are concerned. The subject has of late
   attracted renewed attention. The doctrine of the Eternity of
   Punishments, with the proper explanations and limitations given to it
   in the teaching of the Church, has been set forth by Dr. Pusey in his
   Treatise: What is of Faith as to Everlasting Punishment?' Before
   adverting, however briefly, to the New Testament teaching, it seems
   desirable with some fulness to set forth the Jewish views on this
   subject. For the views held at the time of Christ, whatever they were
   must have been those which the hearers of Christ entertained; and
   whatever views, Christ did not at least directly, contradict or, so far
   as we can infer, intend to correct them. [6491] And here we have
   happily sufficient materials for a history of Jewish opinions at
   different periods on the Eternity Punishment; and it seems the more
   desirable carefully to set it forth, as statements both inaccurate and
   incomplete have been put forward on the subject.

   Leaving aside the teaching of the Apocrypha and Pseudepigraphic Writing
   (to which Dr. Pusey has sufficiently referred), the first Rabbinic
   utterances come to us from the time immediately before that of Christ,
   from the Schools of Shammai and Hillel (Rosh haSh. 16 b last four
   lines, and 17 a). [6492] The former arranged all mankind into three
   classes: the perfectly righteous, who are immediately written and
   sealed to eternal life;' the perfectly wicked, who are immediately
   written and sealed to Gehenna;' and an intermediate class. who go down
   to Gehinnom, and moan, and come up again,' according to Zech. xiii. 9,
   and which seemed also indicated in certain words in the Song of Hannah
   (1 Sam. ii. 6). The careful reader will notice that this statement
   implies belief in Eternal Punishment on the partof the School of
   Shammai. For (1) The perfectly wicked are spoken of as written and
   sealed unto Gehenna;' (2) The school of Shammai expressly quotes, in
   support of what it teaches about these wicked, Dan xii. 2, a passage
   which undoubtedly refers to the final judgment after the Resurrection;
   (3) The perfectly wicked, so punished, are expressly distinguished from
   the third, or intermediate class, who merely go down to Gehinnom,' but
   are not written and sealed,' and come up again.'

   Substantially the same, as regards Eternity of Punishment, is the view
   of the School of Hillel (u. s. 17 a). In regard to sinners of Israel
   and of the Gentiles it teaches, indeed, that they are tormented in
   Gehenna for twelve months, after which their bodies and souls are burnt
   up and scattered as dust under the feet of the righteous; but it
   significantly excepts from this number certain classes of transgressors
   who go down to Gehinnom and are punished there to ages of ages.' That
   the Niphal form of the verb used, {hebrew}; must mean punished' and not
   judged,' appears, not only from the context, but from the use of the
   same word and form in the same tractate (Rosh haSh. 12 a, lines 7 &c.
   from top), when it is said of the generation of the Flood that they
   were punished' surely not judged' - by hot water.' However, therefore
   the School of Hillel might accentuate the mercy of God, or limit the
   number of those who would suffer Eternal Punishment, it did teach
   Eternal Punishment in the case of some. And this is the point in
   question.

   But, since the Schools of Shammai and Hillel represented the
   theological teaching in the time of Christ and His Apostles, it
   follows, that the doctrine of Eternal Punishment was that held in the
   days of our Lord, however it may afterwards have been modified. Here,
   so far as this book is concerned, we might rest the case. But for
   completeness' sake it will be better to follow the historical
   development of Jewish theological teaching, at least a certain
   distance.

   The doctrine of the Eternity of Punishments seems to have been held by
   the Synagogue throuthout the whole first century of our era. This will
   appear from the sayings of the Teachers who florished during its
   course. The Jewish Parable of the fate of those who had not kept their
   festive garments in readiness or apeared in such as were not clean
   (Shabb. 152 b, 153 a) has been already quoted in our exposition of the
   Parables of the Man without the Wedding-garment and of the TenVirgins.
   But we have more than this. We are told (Ber. 28 b) that, when that
   great Rabbinic authority of the first century, Rabbi Jochanan ben
   Zakkai - the light of Israel, the right hand pillar, the mighty hammer'
   - lay a dying and wept, he accounted for his tears by fear as to his
   fate in judgment, illustrating the danger by the contrast of punishment
   by an earthly king whose bonds are not eternal bonds nor his death
   eternal death,' while as regarded God and His judgment: if He is angry
   with me, His Wrath is an Eternal Wrath, if He binds me in fetters, His
   fetters are Eternal fetters, and if He kills me, His death is an
   Eternal Death.' In the same direction is this saying of another great
   Rabbi of the first century, Elieser (Shabb, 152 b, about the middle),
   to the effect that the souls of the righteous are hidden under the
   throne of glory,' while those of the wicked were to be bound and in
   unrest ({hebrew}), one Angel hurling them to another from one end of
   the world to the other - of which latter strange idea he saw
   confirmation in 1 Sam. xxv. 29. To the fate of the righteous applied,
   among other beautiful passages, Is. lvii. 2, to that of the wicked Is.
   lvii. 21. Evidently, the views of the Rabbis of the first century were
   in strict accordance with those Shammai and Hillel.

   In the second century of our era, we mark a decided difference in
   Rabbinic opinion. Although it was said that, after the death of Rabbi
   Meir, the ascent of smoke from the grave of his apostate teacher had
   indicated that the Rabbi's prayers for the deliverance of his matter
   from Gehenna had been answered (Chag. 15 b), most of the eminent
   teachers of that period propounded the idea, that in the last day the
   sheath would be removed which now covered the sun, when its fiery heat
   would burn up the wicked (Ber. R. 6). Nay, one Rabbi maintained that
   there was no hell at all, but that that day would consume the wicked,
   and yet another, that even this was not so, but that the wicked would
   be consumed by a sort of internal conflaragation.

   In the third century of our era we have once more a reaction, and a
   return to the former views. Thus (Kethub. 104 a, about the middle)
   Rabbi Eleasar speaks of the three bands of Angels, which successively
   go forth to meet the righteousness, each with a welcome of their own,
   and of the three bands of Angels of sorrow, which similarly receive the
   wicked in their death - and this, in terms which leave no doubt as to
   the expected fate of the wicked. And here Rabbi José informs us (Tor.
   Ber. vi. 15), that the fire of Gehenna which was created on the second
   day is not extinguished for ever.' With this view accord the seven
   designations which according to Rabbi Joshua ben Levi, attach to
   Gehenna (Erub. 19 a, line 11, &c., from bottom - but the whole page
   bears on the subject). This doctrine was only modified, when Ben Lakish
   maintained, that the fire of Gehenna did not hurt sinners from among
   the Jews (Kethub. u. s.). Nor does even this other saying of his
   (Nedar. 8 b, last four lines) necessarily imply that he denied the
   eternity of punishment: There is no Gehinnom in the world to come' -
   since it is qualified by the expectation that the wicked would be
   punished ({hebrew}), not annihilated, by the heat of the sun, which
   would be felt as healing by the righteous. Lastly, if not universal
   beatification, yet a kind of universal moral restoration seems implies
   in the teaching of Rabbi Jehudah to the effect that in the soeculum
   futurum God would destroy the Yetser haRa.

   Tempting as the subject is, we must here break off this historial
   review, for want to space, not of material. Dr. Pusey has shown that
   the Targumim also teach the doctrine of Eternal Punishment - though
   their date is matter of discussion - and to the passage quoted by him
   in evidence others might be added. And if on the other side the saying
   of Rabbi Akiba should be quoted (Eduy. ii. 10) to the effect that the
   judgment of the wicked in Gehenna was one of the five things that
   lasted for twelve months, it must be remembered that, even if this be
   taken seriously (for it is really only a jeu d' esprit), it does not
   necessarily imply more than the teaching of Hillel concerning that
   intermediate class of sinners who were in Gehenna for a year - while
   there was another class the duration of whose punishment would be for
   ages of ages. Even more palpably inapt is the quotation from Baba Mez.
   58 b (lines 5, &c., from the bottom). For, if that passage declares
   that all are destined to come up again from Gehenna, it expressly
   excepts from this these three classes of persons: adulterers, those who
   put their fellow-men publicly to shame, and those who apply an evil
   name to their neighbors.

   But there can at least be no question, that the passage which has been
   quoted at the outset of these remarks (Rosh haSh. 16 b, 17 a), proves
   beyond the possibility of gainsaying that both the Great Schools, in
   which Rabbinic teaching at the time of Christ was divided, held the
   doctrine of Eternal Punishments. This, of course, entirely apart from
   the question who - how many, or rather, how few - were to suffer this
   terrible fate. And here the cautions and limitations, with which Dr.
   Pusey has shown that the Church has surrounded her teaching, cannot be
   too often or earnestly repeated. It does, indeed, seem painfully
   strange that, if the meaning of it be all realised, some should seem so
   anxious to contend for the extension to so many of a misery from which
   our thoughts shrink in awe. Yet of this we are well assured, that the
   Judge of all the Earth will judge, not only righteously, but
   mercifully. He alone knows all the secrets of heart and life, and He
   alone can apportion to each the due need. And in this assured
   conviction may the mind trustfully rest as regards those who have been
   dear to us.

   But if on such grounds we shrink from narrow and harsh dogmatism, there
   are certain questions which we cannot quite evade, even although we may
   answer them generally rather than specifically. We put aside, as an
   unhealthy and threatening sign of certain religious movements, the
   theory, lately broached, of a so-called Conditional Immortality.' So
   far as the readings of the present writer extends, it is based on bad
   philosophy and even worse exegesis. But the question itself, to which
   this rough-and-ready' kind of answer has been attempted, is one of the
   most serious. In our view, an impartial study of the Words of the Lord,
   recorded in the Gospels - as repeatedly indicated in the text of these
   volumes - leads to the impression that His teaching in regard to reward
   and punishment should be taken in the ordinary and obvious sense, and
   not in that suggested by some. And this is confirmed by what is now
   quite clear to us, that the Jews, to whom He spoke, believed in Eternal
   Punishment, however few they might consign to it. And yet we feel that
   this line of argument is not quite convincing. For might nor our Lord,
   as in regard to the period of His Second Coming, in this also have
   intended to leave His hearers in incertitude? And, indeed, is it really
   necessary to be quite sure of this aspect of eternity?

   And here the question arises about the precise meaning of the words
   which Christ used. It is, indeed, maintained that the terms anios and
   kindred expression always refer to eternity in the strict sense. But of
   this I cannot express myself convinced (see ad voc. Schleusner, Lex.,
   who, however, goes a little too far; Wahl, Clavis N.T.; and Grimm,
   Clavis N.T.), although the balance of evidence is in favour of such
   meaning. But it is at least conceivable that the expressions might
   refer to the end of all time, and the merging of the mediatorial
   regency' (1 Cor. xv. 24) in the absolute kingship of God.

   In further thinking on this most solemn subject, it seems to the
   present writer that exaggerations have been made in the argument. It
   has been said that, the hypothesis of annihilation being set aside, we
   are practially shut up to what is called Universalism. And again, that
   Universalism implies, not only the final restoration of all the wicked,
   but even of Satan and his angels. And further, it has been argued that
   the metaphysical difficultties of the question ultimately resolve
   themselves into this: why the God of all foreknowledge had created
   beings - be they men or fallen angels - who, as He foreknew, would
   ultimately sin? Now this argument has evidently no force as against
   absolute Universalism. But even otherwise, it is rather specious than
   convincing. For we only possess data for reasoning in regard to the
   sphere which falls within our cognition, which the absolutely Divine -
   the pre-human and the pre-created - does not, except so far as it has
   been the subject of Revelation. This limitation excludes from the
   sphere of our possible comprehension all questions connected with the
   Divine foreknowledgeand its compatibility with that which we know to be
   the fundamental law of created intelligences, and the very condition of
   their moral being: personal freedom and choice. To quarrel with this
   limitation of our sphere of reasoning, were to rebel against the
   conditions of human existence. But if so, then the question of Divine
   foreknowledge must not be raised at all, and the question of the fall
   of angels and of the sin of man must be left on the (to us) alone
   intelligible basis: that of personal choice and absolute moral freedom.

   Again - it seems least an exaggeration to put the alternatives thus:
   absolute eternity of punishment - and, with it, of the state of
   rebellion which it implies, since it is unthinkable that rebellion
   should absolutely cease, and yet punishment continue; annihilation; or
   else universal restoration. Something else is at least thinkable, that
   may not lie within these hard and fast lines of demarcation. It is at
   least conceivable that there may be a quartum quid - that there may be
   a purification or transformation (sit venia verbis) of all who are
   capable of such - or, if it is preferred, an unfolding of the germ of
   grace, present before death, invisible though it may have been to other
   men, and that in the end of what we call time or dispensation,' only
   that which is morally incapable of transformation - be it men or devils
   - shall be cast into the lake of fire and brimstone (Rev. xx. 10, 14,
   15; xxi. 8). And here, if, perhaps just, exception is taken to the
   terms purification' or transformation' (perhaps spiritual development),
   I would refer in explanation to what Dr. Pusey has so beautifully
   written - although my reference is only to this point, not to others on
   which he touches (Pusey, What is of Faith, &c., pp. 116-122). And, in
   connection with this, we note that there is quite a series of
   Scripture-statements, which teach alike the final reign of God (that
   God may be all in all'), and the final putting of all things under
   Christ - and all this in connection with blessed fact that Christ has
   tasted death for every man,' that the world through Him might be
   saved,' and, in consequence, to draw all' unto Himself, comp. Col. i.
   19, 20 (comp. St. John iii. 17 ; xii. 32; Rom. v. 18-24; 1 Cor. xv.
   20-28; Eph. i. 10; Col. i. 19, 20; 1 Tim. ii. 4, 6; iv. 10; Heb. ii. 9;
   1 John ii. 2; iv. 14 - all which passages must, however, be studied in
   their connection).

   Thus far it has been the sole aim of the present writer to set before
   the reader, so far as he can, all the elements to be taken into
   consideration. He has pronounced no definite conclusion, and he neither
   wishes nor purposes to do so. This only he will repeat, that to his
   mind the Words of our Lord, as recorded in theGospels, convey this
   impression, that there is an eternity of punishement; and further, that
   this was the accepted belief of the Jewish schools in the time of
   Christ. But of these things does he feel fully assured: that we may
   absolutely trust in the loving-kindness of our God; that the word of
   Christ is for all and of infinite value, and that its outcome must
   correspond to its character; and lastly, for practical purposes, that
   in regard to those who have departed (whether or not we know of grace
   in them) our views and our hopes should be the widest (consistent with
   Scripture teaching), and that as regards ourselves, personally and
   individually, our views as to the need of absolute and immediate faith
   in Christ as the Saviour, of holiness of life, and of service of the
   Lord Jesus, should be the closest and most rigidly fixed.

   EXPLANATORY NOTES AND CORRECTIONS To The Second Volume.

   Page 15^d: The Targum is quoted from the Venice edition.


   Page 16^g: However, the word has also been translated in the wider
   sense of garment.' But see Rosh haSh., and compare also what is said
   about the Tephillin, which cannot be otherwise interpreted than in the
   text.

   Page 21^a: But the passage is a somewhat difficult one, and it has
   received different interpretations. See Levy as in note 1, and
   Lightfoot ad loc. Line 10, read: by a vow from anything by which he
   migh be profited (or rather have enjoyment) form his son.' And so as
   regards note 2, various interpretations and comments are given. But the
   principle that a vow would exclude parents from being profited' is
   clearly established in Ned. ix. 1.

   Page 116^a: Simon b. Shetach compares him to a son who sins against his
   father, and yet he does what the child pleases, so Chony, although he
   was sinning against God, yet He answered that very prayer.

   Page 162^cde: Of course, these were only the extreme inferences from
   their principles, and not intended literatim.

   Page 156, note 1: On the Octave of the Feast probably Ps. xii. was
   chanted (see Sopher. xix. beg.).

   Page 182^d: One of the prohibitions there would be exactly parallel to
   the making of clay.

   Page 290, note 2, end: I refer here especially to Bemid. R. 2. It would
   be difficult to find anything more realistically extravagant in its
   exaltation of Israel over all the nations (delete 28). The note sets
   forth the general impression left on the mind, and is, of course, not
   intended as a citation.

   Page 297^d: The reference is to one who hesitates to forgive injury to
   his name when asked to do so by the offender. At the same time I gladly
   admit how beauttifully Rabbinism speaks about mercy and forgiveness. In
   this respect also are the Gospels historically true, since the teaching
   of Christ here sprang from, and was kindred to the highest teaching of
   the Rabbis. But, to my mind, it is just where Rabbinism comes nearest
   to Christ that the essential difference most appears. And from even the
   highest Rabbinic sayings to the forgiveness of Christ in its freeness,
   absolutenes, internalness, and universality (to Jew and Gentile) there
   is an immeasurable distance.

   Page 388, note 1: In Vayy. R. 3, there is another beautiful stroy of a
   poor man who offered every day half his living, and whose sacrifice was
   presented before that of King Agrippa.

   Page 409^d: As regards the view given of Jer. Ber. 9 a, I refer to
   Levy, Neuhebr. Wörterb. II., p. 10 a.

   Page 411^h: Comp. also Vayy. R. 1.

   Page 431^a: It was described as more beautiful than the waves of the
   sea.

   Page 437^a: The quotation of the Midrash on Cant. is again form the
   unmutilated citation in R. Martini, Pugio Fidei (ed. Carpz), pp. 782,
   783.

   Page note 1: The citations refer to the Jerusalem from heaven. For the
   rest see Weber, Altsynag. Theol., p. 386. but probably the last clause
   had best be omitted.

   Page 479, line 9: What is the Pascha,' &c.; rather: What is "on the
   Pesach?" On the 14 Nisan' - in the original: BaPesach, i.e. the
   beginning of the Passover.

   Page 556, line 7: for on public Feast-days' read at the great public
   Feasts.'

   Page 609: The reference ^d applies to the end of the sentence. On the
   thirteen Veils comp. Maimonides (Kel. haMiqd. vii. 17).

     __________________________________________________________________

   [6491] Of course, we mean their general direction, not the details.

   [6492] In view of the strange renderings and interpretations given of
   Rosh haSh. 16 b, 17 a, I must call special attention to this locus
   classicus.
     __________________________________________________________________
     __________________________________________________________________

                                    INDEX I.

   OF SUBJECTS

   (The Roman Numeral refers to the Volume, the ordinary Numeral to the
   page.  The Index does not extend either to the Notes or to the
   Appendix.)

   Abraham, transcending merits of, i. 271, 272. See Gehenna

   Abtalion, saying of, i. 128

   Academics, subjects of study in, i. 232;

   classes of lectures in, and students, 247

   Acco or Ptolemais, fair at, i. 117

   Acher, See Elisha ben Abuyah

   Acra, Fort, i. 113

   Adam, Fall of, to what ascribed. i. 165;

   things lost through it 166

   Aegina, Jewish inscriptions at, i. 70

   Aenon, near Salim, site of, i. 393, 657, 658

   Agrippa I., money dealings with Alexandrian Jews i. 63

   Agrippeion, built, i. 120

   Akiba, R., i. 15; vindicates canonicity of Canticles, 35

   Akylas, or Aquilla, version of, i. 30

   Alexandra, the Asmonæan, sends portraits to Antony, i. 89, 90;

   a devotee to Pharisaism, 97,

   descent, and children of, 124,

   her intrigues, 125,

   murder of, 126

   Alexandar, the Great, division of his empire, i. 121

   Alexander, son of Herod, history of, i. 126,127

   Alexandreion, built, i. 120

   Alexandria, Jewish students in, i. 24;

   Sanhedrin of 26, 61;

   position, harbour and buildings of, 58, 59;

   trade and luxury in, 60, 61;

   Canobus, 61;

   Lake Mareotis, 61;

   privileges enjoyed by Jews in, 61;

   their Synagogue, 61;

   ethnarch and alabarch, 65;

   rich Jewish firms in, 63,

   gifts to the Temple, 63, 64;

   hatred of Alexandrians towards the Jews, 64;

   Jewish homes in 250

   Alexandrianism, See Hellenists

   Am ha-arets, contempt for, i. 85;

   who reckoned such, 230

   Ananias, high-priest, Palace of, i. 112

   Ananos, or Annas, appointed high priest, i. 242;

   character of his house, 263;

   president of the Sanhedrin, 264;

   bazaars of his sons, 371, 372;

   their conduct, 372, ii. 547,

   Christ before him, ii. 546-548

   Andrew, first call of, i. 345, 346;

   calls Peter, 347, 348;

   final call of, 474-477;

   tells Christ about the inquiring Greeks, ii. 390

   Angels, one appears to Zacharias, i. 138-140;

   their names, whence derived, 141, 142;

   N. T. angelology not from Jewish sources, 142;

   Fall of man ascribed to their envy, 165, 292;

   appear to shepherds of Bethlehem, 187, 188;

   minister to Christ after Temptation 306;

   Essene intercourse with, 330,

   reference to in Pseudepigrapha, 330, 331;

   derivation of doctrine of, 331, 332;

   Christ's teaching about the Angels in heaven, ii. 122;

   Christ strengthened by one in Gethsemane, 540

   Anna, meets Holy Family in Temple, i. 200, 201

   Annius Rufus, the Procurator, i. 242

   Antigonus, of Socho, sayings of, i. 95, 315

   Antigonus, the Maccabee, made high-priest by Parthians, i. 124;

   executed, 124

   Antigonus, the Syrian, conquers Samaria, i. 397

   Antioch, Jews in their rights and Synagogue, controversies with
   Christians in, i. 74

   Antiochus III (Great), ruler of Samaria, i. 397

   Antiochus IV (Epiphanes), persecutions of, i. 4, 5, 95, 121

   Antipater, history of, i. 122, 123

   Antipater, son of Herod, history of i. 126, 127, 219;

   executed, 218

   Antipatris, built, i. 119

   Antonia, ancient Baris, i. 112, 113, 118, 244

   Antony, gives Judæa to Herod, i. 124;

   summons him, 125

   Anxur, Synagogue at, i. 70

   Apion, incites Alexandrians against the Jews, i. 64, 65

   Apocryphal Literature, origin of, i. 31;

   influence of, 33

   Apostles, the Twelve, calling of, i. 521-523;

   mission of, 640;

   Christ's discourse to them on it, 640-653;

   eat the ears of corn on the Sabbath, ii. 53-56;

   their question about feeding the 4000, 66;

   the miraculous always new to them, 66, 67;

   the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees, 70, 71;

   effect on them of the challenge of a sign, 76, 77;

   Christ's question to them at Cæsarea Philippi, 78-80;

   His teaching as to His death, 86, 92, 110, 111, 345;

   the high point in their faith, 91, 92;

   fail to cure the lunatic, 106, 109;

   dispute on the way to Capernaum, and Christ's teaching thereon,
   115-125;

   the betrayal would not finally break up their circle, 504;

   the question as to the betrayer, 505;

   persecutions predicted, 524;

   perplexity about Christ's departure and coming again, 526-528;

   Christ's prayer for them, 529-532;

   breaking up and reforming of their circle, 534, 535;

   they flee on Christ's arrest, 544;

   power delegated to them, 645;

   Christ's last commission, 651;

   they witness the Ascension, 651, 652

   Arabia, Jews in, i. 13

   Aramæan, language spoken, i. 10, 130

   Archelaus, son of Herod, i. 126;

   accession of, 219;

   mission to Rome, 220;

   made ethnarch, 220;

   banished to Gaul, 220, 236;

   wealth confiscated, 236;

   changes high?priests, 240

   Archisynagogos, i. 63

   Aristeas, letter of, i. 25; symbolism in, 34, 36

   Aristobulus, of Alexandria, commentary of, i. 36

   Atistobulus II., disputes of, with Hyrcanus, i. 123

   Aristobulus, brother of Mariamme, i. 124;

   made high?priest, and murdered, 125

   Aristobulus, son of Herod, history of, i. 126, 127

   Artapanus, i. 36

   Arzareth, i. 14

   Ascension of Christ, ii. 651, 652

   Asia Minor, privileges of Jews in, i. 73

   Astrology, among the Jews, i. 209-211

   Athens, Jewish inscriptions at, i. 70

   Atonement, Day of, i. 229

   Amora. See Emora.

   Baba ben Buta, advises Herod, i. 120;

   brings sacrificial animals into the Temple, 370, 372

   Babas, sons of, murdered, i. 126

   Babylonian Jews, how esteemed, i. 7,9;

   seats of, 7, 8;

   genealogies, 9;

   relations to Palestinians, 10-12;

   academies of, 12;

   trade and commerce of, 13-14

   Bankers, Jewish and Roman, ii. 463;

   interest charged by, 463, 464

   Baptism, difference between the Baptist's and Christian, i. 272;

   Levitical and proselyte baptism, 273;

   the Baptist's rite, 274;

   the Baptism of Christ, 283, 284;

   not expected for Messiah in Rabbinic writings, 285

   Bar-Abbas, released, ii. 576, 577, 579

   Bar?Kokhabh, coinage of, ii. 385

   Bar?Timaeus, healing of, ii. 355, 356

   Baruch, Apocalypse of, i. 31;

   age and contents of, 81, 82;

   the Messiah in, 175

   Bath?Qol, declares for Hillel, i. 128;

   was such at Christ's Baptism? 285, 286;

   declares for Eliezer, ii. 69

   Batlanim. See Synagogues

   Beelzebul and Beelzibbul, i. 648

   Bel and the Dragon, i. 31

   Ben Dama, i. 22

   Ben?Lakish, saying of, i. 141, 142

   Bethabara or Bethany, i. 264;

   John the Baptist at, 278

   Bethany, Christ at, ii. 144-147;

   journeys to raise Lazarus, 314, 315;

   leaves it, 326;

   the journey and supper there, 357, 358;

   Mary anoints Christ, 358-360;

   Christ leaves it for Jerusalem, 364;

   returns at night, 373;

   leaves it next morning, 374;

   ecclesiastically included in Jerusalem, 480;

   place of Christ's Ascension, 651

   Bethesda, Pool of, name, i. 462;

   the troubling of the water, 463, 464;

   the miracle there, 467-469

   Beth ha Midrash, i. 23

   Bethlehem, Messiah's birthplace, i. 181, 206;

   description of place, 184;

   the Birth in the stable, 185;

   the shepherds in the plains, 186, 187;

   the adoration of the shepherds, 189

   Bethphage, identification of, ii. 364;

   the colt loosed at, 365;

   ecclesiastically included in Jerusalem, 480

   Bethsaida, of Galilee, probable situation of, ii. 3,

   house of Peter and Andrew, 4;

   Christ there, 6;

   woe on, 138, 139

   Bethsaida?Julias, built, i. 88, 262, 676;

   the feeding of the 5000 there, 677-685;

   the multitude sent away, 687;

   healing of one blind at, ii. 47, 48

   Betrothal. See Marriage.

   Bikkurim, i. 9

   Binding and Loosing, power of, ii. 84, 85;

   Church's power of, 645

   Boraithas, i. 103;

   in the Babylon Talmud, 104, 105

   Botnah, fair at, i. 117

   Brethren of the Lord, question concerning the, i. 251, 364;

   live in Capernaum, 364;

   their visit to Christ, 576, 577;

   challenge Him to show Himself, ii. 129, 130

   Burial, orations at, i. 555;

   the mourners, 555; ii. 317, 318;

   coffins and biers, i. 555, 556; ii. 317;

   procession to the grave, i. 556, 557;

   duties connected with, ii. 133;

   time of burying, ii. 315;

   cemeteries and tombs, 316-320;

   mourning of relatives, 320, 321;

   visiting the grave, 323;

   Jewish ideas about corruption, 324;

   Christ's woe on hypocrisy in whitening tombs, 413;

   burial and grave of Christ, 617, 618

   Cæsar, tribute to, the question of, ii. 383-386

   Cæsarea, i. 88, 119;

   residence of Roman Procurator, 236

   Cæsarea Philippi, built, i. 88, 262;

   Christ journeys to, ii. 70-74;

   description of locality, 74;

   Christ's question and Peter's confession there, 78-85;

   the teaching and temptation by Peter there, 86-88;

   Christ leaves it, 110.

   Caiaphas, appointed high priest, i. 242;

   character and policy of, 262, 263, ii. 546;

   his unconscious prophecy, ii. 325;

   Christ before him: the private interview, 549?553;

   the trial before the Sanhedrists, 557?561;

   the condemnation, 561

   Calirrhoe, baths of, i. 217

   Cana of Galilee, marriage in, 344;

   site of town, 355, 356;

   home of Nathanael, 356, 423;

   the first miracle in, 357-363;

   the second miracle in, 423-429

   Canon, Old Testament, i. 27, 35

   Capernaum, home of Christ, His mother, and brethren, i. 364, 457;

   site of town, 365, 366;

   Synagogue at, 366;

   cure of court officer's son at, 424-429;

   centre for preaching, 468, 460;

   cure of the demonised in the Synagogue at, 479-485;

   cure of Peters wife's mother and of sick at, 485-488;

   Christ heals the paralytic at, 502-506;

   cure of centurion's servant there, 544-549;

   raising of Jairus' daughter at, 616-634;

   healing of the woman with the bloody flux, 620;

   Christ leaves it, 635;

   teaches near it, 654;

   His discourses on His return there, ii. 4-26;

   His teaching in the Synagogue there, 27-36;

   deserted by some disciples there, 36;

   He leaves Capernaum, 37, 75;

   teaching on his return to Capernaum, 115-125;

   Christ's woe on. 139

   Capua, Jewish tombstones at, i. 70

   Carmel, view of, i. 146

   Census, that of Cyrenius, i. 181-183;

   excitement consequent on, 236, 237, 241

   Chaber, See Pharisees

   Chanina ben Dosa, cure by, i. 424, 425; ii. 116

   Chasidim, rule of, i. 96,

   distinguished from Pharisees, 323

   Chazzan, generally also teacher, i. 123;

   his part in the Synagogue services, 438, 443

   Cheber, under the Maccabees, i. 97

   Chija, R., restores the Law, i. 12

   Children, how regarded by the Jews, i. 227, 252;

   what they see before being born, ii. 325

   Chitsonim, their Sepharim, or outside books, i. 33;

   probably the Essenes, 331-333;

   books denounced by Rabbis, 333,334

   Chol ha Moed, ii. 148, 156

   Chorazin, Christ's woe on, ii. 138, 139

   Church, the, disputes in early, i. 7;

   foundation laid on the Petrine' ii. 82-85,

   discipline to offenders in, 123, 124;

   authority bestowed by Christ on, 140-142;

   its union, communion, and disunion, 519-524;

   rule and ordination in the early Church, 555;

   its commission and power given by the Risen Christ, 644, 645

   Clement of Alexandria, on Aristobulus, i. 36

   Coponius, Procurator of Syria, i. 242

   Costobarus, Governor of Idumæa, murdered, i. 126

   Crasius, spoils Temple Treasury, i. 369

   Crucifixion of Christ, preparations for, and procession to, ii.
   582-586;

   Simon the Cyrenian bears the Cross, 587;

   Christ and the women of Jerusalem, 588, 589;

   the crucifying, 589; the draught refused, 590;

   the titulus, 590, 591;

   the lots for the garments, 591-593;

   the Utterances of Christ, and the mocking, 593-609;

   his death, 609, 610;

   the rending of the veil and the earthquake, &c., 610-612;

   the crurifragium 613;

   Christ's side pierced, 614, 615

   Cyrene, Jews in, i. 62, 63, 119;

   Simon of, ii. 5-7

   Cyrenius, notices of, in St. Luke, i. 181, 182;

   orders a census, 236;

   Governor of Syria, 242

   Dalmanutha, probable derivation of name, ii. 67, 68;

   its site, 72;

   the challenge of the sign from heaven at, 68-70;

   its effect on the disciples, 71, 79

   Darshan, studies of, i. 11

   Dead, the offices for, i. 554, 555.

   See Death and Burial

   Death, Jewish ideas of its cause, i. 166;

   the Gan Eden and Gehinnom after, ii. 280-281;

   invocation of Abraham after, ii. 280, 281, 282

   Debtors, bonds or writings of, ii. 268, 271, 272;

   various kinds of such legal documents, 272, 273

   Decapolis, cities of the, i. 87;

   Christ heals one deaf and dumb there, ii. 44-47;

   Sabbath controversies in, 53-62;

   feeding of 4000 in, 63-67;

   Christ journeys through it towards Jerusalem, 132;

   certain there who would follow Him, 132-134

   Dedication of the Temple, Feast of, i. 121;

   how celebrated, 229, ii. 227, 228;

   names for it, 226, 227;

   Christ's teaching at, 229-232

   Defilement, Rabbinic, degrees of, i. 493, 494;

   from entering a heathen house, ii. 566, 567

   Demetrius, Hellenist historian, i. 36

   Demetrius Phalereus, i. 24, 25

   Demonised, in N.T., i. 479;

   views of Christ and of His contemporaries on, 480;

   character and probable rationale of the phenomenon, 480-485, 607-612;

   Jewish remedies for, 482;

   cure of the demonised at Capernaum, 484-485;

   at Gerasa, 607-614.

   Demonology of N.T., whence derived? i. 142;

   Jewish idea of Beelzebul, ii. 201

   Derush, i. 21

   Dispersion, the, union with Jerusalem in worship and hope, i. 5, 6, 77,
   78, 82, 83;

   in all lands, 70;

   persecutions suffered by them of the, 75;

   places of worship, 76;

   Palestinian views of their present and future, 78-82

   Dispersion, Eastern, or Trans?Euphratic, nations of, i. 6;

   political and religious standing, 7-12

   Dispersion, Western. See Hellenists

   Divorce, Christ's teaching to the Pharisees on, ii. 331, 332, 334-336;

   Rabbinic views on the subject, 332-334

   Dorshé Reshumoth, allegoric interpretations of the, i. 35

   Dreams, how regarded, i. 155

   Dress, etiquette in, i. 620;

   articles of clothing, 621-623;

   probable dress of Christ, 624-626;

   byssus and purple, ii. 278

   Eden, Gan, ii. 280, 281.

   See Death

   Egypt, Holy Family in, i. 214, 215, 217

   Eleazar, high?priest, letter to, i. 25;

   Aristeas' account of, 34, 35

   Eleazar, son of Boethos, High Priest, i. 241

   Eleazar, son of Judas the Nationalist, i. 241, 242

   Eleazar, the Mede, i. 12

   Eliezerben Hyrcanos, R., i. 15; his stone, 107;

   signs in confirmation of his teaching, ii. 69;

   questioned as to the shepherd and sheep, 193, 194

   Elijah, Jewish ideas concerning, i. 142, 143;

   at the Transfiguration, ii. 97, 98;

   the disciples' question about his coming, 104, 105

   Elisabeth, character and home of, i. 135-137;

   her retirement, 143;

   greets the Virgin, 152, 153;

   gives the name John, 158

   Elisha ben Abuyah, R., the apostate, i. 22, 23

   Emmaus, Moza, or Colonia, ii. 157;

   the walk to Emmaus on Easter Day, 637-642

   Eraora, part of, in Synagogue services, i. 445, 449, 450

   Enoch, Book of, date and character, i. 38;

   restoration of Israel according to, 79;

   presentation of Messiah in, 173;

   angelology of, 330

   En?Soph. See Kabbalah.

   Ephraim, city of, ii. 127;

   Christ there, 326, 327

   Esdras, Fourth, age and character of, i. 80, 81;

   Messiah in, 175

   Esebonitis, built, i. 88, 120

   Essenes, dress of, i. 119;

   manner of life, 237;

   number and separation of, 324, 325, 328, 329;

   was John the Baptist one? 325, 334;

   customs and grades in the order, 326-328;

   angelology of, 330;

   derivation of the name Essene, 332-333;

   Rabbinic views of the sect, 334

   Eupolemus, i. 36

   Excommunication, Jewish kinds of, ii. 183, 184;

   what involved in, 184

   Execution, Jewish modes of, ii. 584

   Ezekias, rising of, i. 238, 241

   Ezekiel, Hellenist poet, i. 36

   Ezra, return under i. 8;

   activity of, 9, 10, 12

   Fasting, Jewish views on, i. 662, 663;

   days of, ii. 291

   Fathers, Jewish, duties of, i. 230

   Feasts, attendance at, when obligatory, i. 235

   Fig?tree, value of, ii. 246, 247;

   parable of, 246-248;

   Christ curses the barren tree, 374-377

   Flocks at Bethlehem, for what purpose there, i. 187

   Gaba, i. 88

   Gabinius, rebuilds Samaria, i. 398

   Gabriel, angel, how regarded by the Jews, i. 142;

   sent to Nazareth, 150, &c.

   Galileans, character and dialect of, i. 225;

   despised by Rabbis, 225, 226;

   slaughter of some by Pilate, ii. 221

   Galilee, country of, exports and character of, i. 117, 223, 224;

   the stronghold of the Nationalists, 238;

   Christ withdraws there, 393;

   His first ministry there, 422, 423, 458, 459;

   His second journey through Galilee, 490;

   once more there: heals two blind men, ii. 49, 50;

   returns there from Cæsarea Philippi, 110;

   last commission to apostles there, 651

   Galilee, Lake of, i. 225;

   the call of disciples by, 472-476;

   fishing in the Lake, 473, 474;

   calming the storm on it, ii. 599-605;

   walking on the waters of, 687-695;

   Christ's appearance after the Resurrection by it, ii. 647-651

   Gamaliel I., i. 22;

   healing of his son, i. 424

   Gamaliel II., knowledge of Greek of, i. 22;

   his arguments about the Resurrection, i. 315, 316, ii. 402, 403

   Gaza, fair at, i. 117

   Gehenna, Jewish ideas of, i. 271, 550, ii. 280, 281, 440;

   children of, i. 551, ii. 440

   Gennesaret, Land of, beauty of, ii. 5

   Gentiles, how regarded by Jews, i. 90-92, 547, ii. 15;

   their future according to the Rabbis, i. 271, ii. 440, 441

   Genusim, Sepharim, i. 33.

   See Apocrypha

   Gerasa, i. 606, 607;

   healing of the demonised at, 607-615

   Gethsemane, site and name of, ii. 533, 534;

   Christ's agony in, 538-541

   Golah. See Dispersion

   Golgotha, site and name of, ii. 585, 586

   Gospels, order of, and presentation of Christ in, i. 54, 55

   Grecian philosophy, influence on Jews of, i. 22, 23, 31;

   views on immortality by, 257

   Greek language, influence on Palestinian, i. 22;

   price of Greek MSS., 24;

   not the language of Christ, 130;

   understood by Him, 253

   Haggadah, character of, i. 11, 12, 35, 94, 102;

   occurrence of in Mishnah, 103;

   authority of, and contrast to Christ's teaching, 105, 106

   Halakhah, authority of, i. 11, 94, 99-102;

   growth and object of, 97, &c.;

   contrast to the teaching of Christ and of Scripture, 105, 106, ii. 17

   Hallel, the, i. 230;

   at Feast of Tabernacles, ii. 159;

   after Paschal Supper, 533

   Hebrew, by whom spoken, i. 10, 130;

   price of MSS., 23, 24;

   spoken by Christ, 252

   Hellenic cities of Palestine, i. 87-89

   Hellenism, character of, i. 31-34;

   modes on interpreting Scripture of, 34-36;

   Philo's exposition of these methods, 40, &c.;

   completion of Hellenism in him, 57

   Hellenists, or Grecian Jews, character of, i. 6, 7, 18-22;

   origin of name, 17;

   religious views of, 18, 19;

   studies of, 20-23;

   those in Egypt, 62

   Heretics, how regarded, i. 91

   Hermon, distant view of, i. 146;

   description of ascent to, ii. 93-95;

   the Transfiguration on, 96-98;

   the descent from, 102-104;

   healing of the lunatic below, 106-109

   Herod I. (Great), orders genealogies to be burnt, i. 9;

   architectural works of, 88, 90, 118-120,127;

   conduct towards the priesthood and Sanhedrim 120, 123, 238, 240;

   political history of, 123-125;

   murders by and family troubles of, 124-127;

   his death, 127, 217, 218;

   hatred of the people for him, 127;

   his attitude towards Judaism, 127;

   conduct towards the Magi, 204-207;

   murder of the Innocents by, 214;

   will of Herod, 219;

   his opposition to Nationalism, 240

   Herod II. (Antipas), political history of, i. 126, 219, 220, 673;

   his character, 261, 393, 394;

   builds Tiberias, 261;

   probable alliance with the Pharisees of, 393, 658;

   residence in Peræa, 657;

   imprisons and murders the Baptist, 656-674;

   his marriage with Herodias, 673;

   desires to see Christ, 675, ii. 75;

   his threat to kill Christ, ii. 301, 302, 384;

   Christ before him in Jerusalem, 572

   Herod Philip, i. 219;

   marries Herodias, 672, 673

   Herodeion, built, i. 120;

   burial of Herod I. at, 218

   Herodias, her hatred of the Baptist, i. 658, 672;

   history of, 673

   Herodians, or Boethusians, character and views of, i. 237-240, ii. 384;

   seek a sign from Christ, ii. 67-70;

   their question about tribute, 384

   High?priests, at the time of Christ, character of, i. 263

   Hillel, activity of, i. 12, 95;

   life of, 116, 128, 129;

   how he attained authority, 248, ii. 381;

   character and tendency of his school, i. 238-240;

   many of his school murdered by Shammaites, 239, ii. 13, 14;

   the eighteen decrees, ii. 14;

   his teaching on divorce, 333, 334;

   character of ordinances imposed by his school, 407

   Holy Spirit, the, descent of, at Christ's Baptism, i. 284-287;

   blasphemy against, ii. 199;

   the promised Paraclete, 515-518, 525, 526

   Homeros, Siphré, i. 23

   Homes, Jewish, character of, i. 227, 252

   Houses, Jewish, large and small, i. 501, 502

   Hyrcania, built, i. 120

   Hyrcanus I., breaks with Pharisees, i. 97;

   conquers Idumæa, 122;

   destroys Samaritan Temple, 398

   Hyrcanus II., history of, i. 122-126

   Idumæa (S. Palestine), conquered, i. 122

   Incensing, ceremonial of, i. 137, 138

   India, Jews in, i. 13

   Inheritance, Jewish law of, ii. 243, 259;

   gifts, and testaments, 259

   Innocents, murder of the, i. 214-216

   Ishmael, son of Elisha, vision by, i. 138

   Israel, unity of, i. 3;

   merits of, 84, 86;

   their sufferings, to what ascribed, 167, 168;

   conditions of their deliverance by Messiah, 169, 170;

   future of, 271

   Italy, Jewish settlements in, i. 70

   Jairus, raising of his daughter by Christ, i. 617-634

   James, son of Alphæus, call of, i. 521;

   a cousin of Christ, ii. 603

   James, brother of Christ, character of, i. 251, 254;

   Christ's appearance to him after the Resurrection, ii. 651

   James, son of Zebedee, first call of, i. 347, 348;

   final call of, 474-477;

   witnesses raising of Jairus' daughter, 629;

   sees the Transfiguration, ii. 93-98;

   his request to Christ, 346, 347;

   taken into Gethsemane, 538

   Jason, or Joshua, the high?priest, unJewish conduct of, i. 118, 121

   Jehudab the Holy, R., collates the Mishnah, i. 102;

   views on the Samaritans of, 401

   Jehudab ben Tabbai, i. 96

   Jericho, imprisonment of principal Jews by Herod in, i. 218, 219;

   site, history, and commerce of, ii. 349, 351;

   Christ stays with Zacchæus in, 352-355;

   heals two blind men at, 355, 356

   Jerusalem, description of, in time of Herod, i. 111-113;

   shops and markets in, 115, 117, 118;

   cost of living and population in 116;

   Synagogues and academies of, 119;

   magistrates in, 129;

   Grecianism in, 129;

   character and morals of the people in; 130-132;

   the dialect, 130;

   houses, letters, and newspapers in, 131;

   Christ's last three visits to Jerusalem, ii. 126, 127;

   His entry into the city, 363-373;

   Jewish ideas as to the Jerusalem of the future, 437

   Jesus Christ, annunciation of, i. 150-152;

   His Name, 155;

   His Nativity, 185-189;

   His Divinity, why kept a mystery, 192;

   His circumcision and redemption, 193-197;

   Simeon and Anna, 198-200;

   adored by Magi, 207, 213;

   the flight into Egypt, 214, 215;

   home at Nazareth, 221;

   the Nazarene' 222, 223;

   His child life, 226-234;

   first attendance in the Temple 236-249;

   His youth and early manhood, 252-254;

   His Baptism, 278-287;

   Temptation, 291-307;

   Christ the Lamb of God, 342-344,

   first week of His Ministry, 344, 345;

   first call of disciples and return to Galilee, 345-350;

   the first Miracle at Cana, 356-363;

   His home at Capernaum, 366;

   the first Passover in His Ministry, 366;

   purification of the Temple, 372-374;

   the sign asked, 374-378;

   the signs done at the Passover, 378-380;

   Christ's teachlng to Nicodemus, 381-389;

   Christ's teaching and His disciples' baptism in Judæa, 390, 393;

   Christ at Jacob's Well at Sychar: the teaching of the woman, 395-420;

   the two days in Samaria, 420-422;

   the cure of the court officer's son at Capernaum, 424-429;

   Christ at Nazareth, 430, 431, 451-459;

   at the Unknown Feast, 460-471;

   end of first stage of Christ's Ministry, final call of disciples, and
   miraculous draught of fishes, 472-477;

   heals the demonised at Capernaum, 484, 485;

   cures Peter's wife's mother and other sick, 485-488;

   second Galilean journey, 490-491;

   heals the leper, 491-498;

   tracked by Scribes and Pharisees, 498, 499,574, ii. 51;

   heals the paralytic at Capernaum, i. 502-506;

   calls Matthew, 513-521,

   calls the twelve, 522, 523;

   the Sermon on the Mount, 524-541;

   in Capernaum: visit of His friends, 542, 543,

   the charge that He had a devil and Satanic power, 543, 575, 576, 609,
   ii. 8, 197, 198;

   heals the centurion's servant, 544-551;

   raises the young man at Nain, 552-562;

   chronology of this period, 561, 562, 570;

   pardons the woman which was a sinner, 563-569;

   the women who ministered to Him, 570-573;

   heals two blind men and one demonised dumb on way to Capernaum, 573;

   the visit of His mother and brethren, 576, 577;

   His teaching by parables, 578-586;

   the first series, 585-598;

   stills the storm on the Lake of Galilee, 599-605;

   heals the demonised at Gerasa, 606-615;

   raises Jairus' daughter, and heals the woman who touched Him, 616-634;

   Christ's personal appearance, 620-626;

   His second visit to Nazareth, 635, 640;

   sends forth the twelve, 640-653;

   withdraws from Galilee, 654, 655;

   answers the Baptist's disciples as to prayer and fasting, 662-665;

   answers the Baptist's message, 668, 669;

   Christ's testimony to the Baptist, 669-671;

   feeds 5000 at Bethsaida, 677-685;

   will not be made King, 686;

   walks on the sea and stills the storm on the lake, 687-695;

   at Gennesaret, ii. 5;

   returns to Capernaum, 4-7;

   discourses by the way, 9-24;

   the crisis in popular feeling concerning Christ, 25, 26, 35, 36;

   the teaching in the Synagogue at Capernaum, 27-35;

   defection among His disciples, and answer of Peter, 36;

   heals the Syro?Phoenician's daughter in the borders of Tyre and Sidon,
   37-43;

   cures one deaf and dumb in the Decapolis, 44-47;

   heals one blind at Bethsaida?Julias, 47, 48;

   heals two blind men, 48-50;

   Christ's teaching as to the Sabbath, 52-58, 303;

   heals the man with the withered hand, 59-62;

   feeds 4000 in the Decapolis, 63-67;

   Christ in the parts of Dalmanutha: the sign asked, 67-70;

   teaches His disciples concerning the leaven of the Pharisees, 70, 71;

   end of Christ's Galilean ministry, 75, 76;

   effect of the challenge of a sign on the disciples and Judas, 76-78;

   Peter's confusion and Christ's declaration and teaching thereon, 78-86;

   Peter's temptation of Christ, 86, 87;

   Christ's teaching about His death, 86, &c., 110, 111, 345, 391, 392,
   469, 471;

   the Transfiguration, 93-103;

   He heals the lunatic, 105-109;

   Peter and the tribute-money, 112-114;

   discourse to the disciples, 117-125;

   chronology of last part of Gospel narratives, 126-129;

   Christ journeys to the Feast of Tabernacles, the challenge of His
   brethren, 129, 130;

   the Samaritans will not receive Him, 131, 132;

   those who were hindered from following Him, 132-134;

   the mission and return of the Seventy, 135-142;

   the woes on Chorazin and Bethsaida, 138, 139;

   Christ's yoke, 142-144;

   the inquiry of the lawyer; 144;

   Christ at Bethany, 144-147;

   teaches in the Temple at Feast of Tabernacles, 150-155;

   plots of His enemies, 155;

   teaches on the great day of the Feast, 160-162;

   discourse in the Treasury, 164, 166-176;

   Christ as Shomroni, 174-176;

   heals the man born blind, 178-187;

   the allegory of the Good Shepherd, 188-193;

   in Peræa, teaches the disciples to pray, 195-197;

   discourses in Peræa to disciples and people, 199-203;

   the teaching at the morning meal in the Pharisee's house, 205-213;

   His discourses to the disciples and multitude, 214-221;

   teaching concerning the slaughtered Galileans, 221, 222;

   heals a woman in a Peræan Synagogue, 223-225;

   teaches in the Temple at the Feast of Dedication, 228-232;

   the Peræan parables, 234-297;

   the Peræan discourses, 298-307;

   Christ's answer to Herod's message, 301, 302;

   the raising of Lazarus, 308-326;

   the plots of the Sanhedrists, 326;

   Christ at Ephraim, 326, 327;

   He prepares for His last journey to Jerusalem, 327, 328;

   heals ten lepers, 328, 331;

   His teaching on divorce, 331-336;

   He blesses little children, 336, 337;

   His answer to the young ruler, and teaching on riches, 338-343;

   answers the request of the mother of Zebedee's children, 346-348;

   at Jericho with Zaccheus, 349-355;

   He heals two blind men there, 355, 356;

   the supper at Bethany and the anointing there, 357-360;

   Christ's entry into Jerusalem, 363-373;

   He returns to Bethany, 373;

   the cursing of the barren figtree; 374-377;

   the final cleansing of the Temple, 377, 378;

   the children's Hosanna, 378, 379;

   He teaches on the third day in Passion Week, 380-383;

   tribute to Cæsar, 383-386;

   the widow's two mites, 387-389;

   teaches the Greeks who would see Him, 389-391;

   the voice from Heaven, 392;

   Christ's last appeal in the Temple, 393-395;

   controversy with the Sadducees about the Resurrection, 396-403;

   the Scribes' question of the greatest commandment, 403-405;

   David's Son and Lord, 405-406;

   final woes against Pharisaism, 406-414;

   Christ finally quits the Temple, 414;

   the last parables, 415-430, 453-467;

   Christ's discourse on the Last Things, 431-452;

   He rests before His Passion, 468, 469;

   He is sold by Judas, 475-477;

   He sends His disciples to prepare for the Passover, 480-485;

   His probable host, 485;

   Christ enters Jerusalem, 488, 489;

   the Sacraments which opened and closed His ministry, 491, 492;

   the Paschal Supper, 492-507;

   Judas goes out, 507, 508;

   the institution of the Lord's Supper, 509-512;

   Christ's last Discourses, 513-528;

   the Lord's own prayer, 528-532;

   on the way to Gethsemane, 533-534;

   Christ's supplication for, and warning to Peter, 535-538;

   His agony in Gethsemane, 538-541;

   His betrayal and arrest, 541-545;

   Christ before Annas, 546-548;

   before Caiaphas, and before the Sanhedrists, 549-561;

   Christ is condemned and insulted, 561-563;

   He looks on Peter, 564;

   the morning meeting of the Sanhedrists, 565;

   Christ before Pilate, 565-578;

   Christ sent to Herod, 572;

   He is scourged, 579;

   He is sentenced by Pilate, 580, 581;

   Christ is crucified, 582-609;

   He dies and descends into Hades, 610;

   the rent veil and earthquake, 610-612;

   the centurion's testimony, 612;

   His side is pierced, 613-615;

   His entombment, 615-618;

   the guard set, 619, 620;

   His Resurrection, 630, &c.;

   appearances after, 634-651;

   His Ascension, 651, 652

   Jesus, son of Sië, high priest, i. 241

   Jews, their resistance to Rome, i. 257;

   their condition under Augustus and Tiberius, 262;

   history of their progressive resistance to Christ, ii. 393-395

   Jezreel, Plain of, i. 145

   Joanna, wife of Chuza, ministers to Christ, i. 572, 573

   Joazar, high priest, quiets the people as to the census, i. 237, 241;

   political history and views of, 240-242

   Jochanan ben Zakkai, R., saying of, i. 168;

   his conduct during the last war, 238, 239

   restoration of his child, ii. 116;

   parable spoken by 425, 426

   John the Baptist, annunciation of, i. 139;

   his birth and circumcision, 157,158;

   parallelism with Elijah, 255, 264;

   his early years, 260;

   first public appearance and preaching, 264-276;

   his personal appearance, 277;

   he baptizes Christ, 278-284;

   his testimony to the deputation from Jerusalem, 308-310, 338-341;

   character of his preaching, 336-338;

   his temptation, 339, 340;

   his testimony to the Lamb of God, 342-345;

   his two disciples follow Christ, 345, 346;

   the disputes at Ænon between his disciples and a Jew, 391-393;

   he is imprisoned by Antipas, 656-666;

   the questions of the Baptist's disciples as to fasting and prayer,
   662-665;

   his embassy to Christ, 661, 667-669;

   Christ's testimony to the Baptist, 669-671;

   the beheading of John, 671-674

   John the Evangelist, object and style of his Gospel, i. 55, 56;

   his view of the Logos, 56;

   first call of the Apostle, 345-348;

   his retrospect on the visit of Nicodemus, 389;

   arrangement of his Gospel in cycles, 407, 408;

   final call of John, 474-477;

   internal evidences of his Gospel, 499;

   witnesses the raising of Jairus's daughter, 629;

   sees the Transfiguration, ii. 93-98;

   forbids a man who did not follow Christ, 117-120;

   the parts of Christ's History which are viewed in his Gospel, 126-129;

   his request, with his mother and brother, 346-347;

   his question at the Paschal Supper, 506;

   with Christ in Gethsemane, 538;

   in the Palace of Caiaphas, 550, 551;

   under the Cross, 601-603;

   at the Sepulchre on Easter Day, 633, 634;

   by the Lake of Galilee: why he recorded this narrative, 647-651

   Jonathan, the Maccabee, history of, i. 96, 113

   Joppa, harbour of, i. 117

   Joseph, the husband of the Virgin Mary, his genealogy, i. 149;

   the dream and vision of, 154, 155;

   marries Mary, 155, 156;

   journeys to Bethlehem, 183, &c.;

   flees into Egypt, 214;

   returns to Nazareth, 221;

   his search for Jesus at Christ's first visit to Jerusalem, 248

   Joseph of Arimathea, the request of, ii. 615, 617

   Joseph, uncle of Herod, murdered by him, i. 125

   Joseph, brother of Herod, i. 124

   Josephus, Grecian thought in, i. 32

   Joses, brother of Christ, i. 251

   Joshua, R., anecdote of i. 107

   Joshua, son of Gamla, establishes schools, i. 231

   Jubilees, Book of, its language and character, i. 38;

   the restoration of the Jews in, 80;

   angelology of, 330, 331

   Judæa, home of Rabbinism, i. 148, 223, 224;

   the Roman rule of, 260

   Judan, R., discovered the Messiah, i. 175

   Judas, R., executed by Herod, i. 217, 218

   Judas, son of Ezekias, revolt of, i. 241

   Judas Iscariot, a Judæan, i. 522;

   beginning of his apostasy, ii. 36;

   history of his gradual alienation, 77, 78, 471-475;

   murmurs at Mary's anointing of Christ, 359, 360;

   sells Christ to the Sanhedrists, 475-477;

   his bearing at the Paschal Supper, 495-507;

   he leaves the table, 507;

   his character, 535, 536;

   he betrays Christ, 541-543;

   his change of mind, 477, 478, 573, 574;

   brings back the money and hangs himself, 478, 574, 575,

   the potter's field, 575, 576

   Judas Lebbæus, why so called, i. 522;

   his question after the Paschal Supper, ii. 417;

   a cousin of Christ, 603

   Jude, brother of Christ, character of, i. 251, 254

   Judges, in Jerusalem, classes of, ii. 286, 287

   Julias, city in Peræa, built, i. 88;

   palace of Antipas there, 657

   Kabbalah, the, i. 44;

   En?Soph in, 45;

   Sephiroth in, 45;

   what so called, 102

   Kal va Chomer, argument by, ii. 285, 286

   Khan, or caravansary, i. 117

   Kingdom of God, its history and meaning in O. and N.T., i. 160, 161,
   265, 266, 269, 270, 275, 276;

   announced by John the Baptist, 265, 291;

   Rabbinic views of the Kingdom, 266-268;

   the yoke of the Kingdom, 267, 268, ii. 142-144;

   it was the common hope of Israel, i. 275, 276;

   the Baptist's position in regard to the Kingdom, 283;

   Christ's consecration to it, 300;

   He teaches concerning entrance into it, 385-388, ii. 299, 300;

   the Kingdom portrayed in the Sermon on the Mount, i. 529-531;

   who are worthy of it, 549;

   its mysteries in parables, 583-586, 592-596;

   the new and old as regards the Kingdom, 665;

   Christ's teaching as to greatness and service in it, ii. 120, 141, 410;

   forgiveness in the Kingdom, 123-125;

   inauguration feast in it, 300;

   the Kingdom compatible with state rule, 386;

   the great paradox concerning it, 391

   Kypros, built, i. 119

   Lamps, of the Ten Virgins, ii. 455-458

   Last Things, Christ's Discourse on, ii. 455-458;

   the views of the disciples on, 432, 433;

   Jewish views on the sorrows of, at Advent of Messiah, 433, 440;

   on final judgment, eternal punishment, and the world to come, 440-442;

   the Pseudepigrapha and Philo on the last things, 442-445;

   Christ's warnings to individuals and to the Church, 446-450;

   what is to be the Church's attitude, 450-452

   Latin, possibly understood by Christ, i. 253

   Lazarus of Bethany, sickness, death, and raising of, ii. 312-325;

   is present at the feast of Bethany, 358

   Leases and contracts, terms and modes of, ii. 272, 273, 423

   Leontopolis, temple of, i. 62

   Leper, healed by Christ, i. 491-497;

   Rabbinic precautions regarding, 492-494;

   how morally viewed by Jews, 494, 495;

   Christ heals ten lepers, ii. 329-331

   Lord's Supper, the accounts of its institution, ii. 509, 510;

   the words, 510;

   probable time of the Paschal Supper, 511

   Luke, St., Gospel by, its character, i. 54, 55;

   the Prologue, 202,

   narrative peculiar to it, ii. 126-128;

   was he one who went to Emmaus? 638

   Lysanias, governor of Abilene, i. 261

   Maccabee, Judas, political history of, i. 5, 121, 122

   Maccabees, or Asmonæans, the rising and government of, i. 96, 97,
   121-123;

   the Palace of the Maccabees, 112, 118;

   supposed derivation of their name, 237;

   the coinage of, ii. 385

   Maccabees, Fourth Book of, i. 32

   Machærus, built, i. 120;

   description of the site, 658-661

   Magadan, borders of. See Dalmanutha

   Magi, the meaning of the designation, i. 203;

   their home, 203, 204;

   their mission, 204-207;

   their adoration and gifts, 207-214

   Magdala, i. 571, ii. 5;

   its dyeworks, i. 571

   Malchus, smitten in Gethsemane, ii. 544

   Mamon, ii. 266, 269

   Manahem, son of Judas the Nationalist, fate of, i. 241

   Manasseh, priest at Samaria, i. 396

   Manna, to be brought down by Messiah, i. 176

   Marcus Ambivius, Procurator, i. 242

   Mark, St., character of his Gospel, i. 54, 499, 500;

   presentation of Christ in it, ii. 127, 128;

   probably was the young man in Gethsemane, 545

   Mariamme I. wife of Herod, history of, i. 124-126

   Mamage and betrothal, in Judæa and in Galilee, i. 148;

   groomsmen, 148, 663, 664;

   betrothal of Joseph and Mary, 148-150;

   Jewish views on betrothal, 352-354;

   the marriage ceremony, 354, 355;

   marriage processions, ii. 455

   Martha, of Bethany, Christ in her house, ii. 145-147;

   her bearing at the time of the death and raising of Lazarus, 312, 313,
   321, 322-324;

   serves at the feast in Bethany, 358

   Mary of Bethany, sits at Christ's feet, ii. 145-147;

   her bearing at the time of the death and raising of Lazarus, 312, 313,
   322-323;

   she anoints Christ's feet, 358-360

   Mary, wife of Clopas, ii. 602, 603, 618

   Mary Magdalene, i. 570, 571;

   under the Cross, ii. 602;

   watches the burying, 618;

   at the empty tomb on Easter Day, i. 572, ii. 631;

   tells Peter and John, ii. 633;

   sees the Angels and Christ, 634, 636

   Mary the Virgin, her descent, i. 149;

   betrothal, 149, 150;

   the annunciation to, 150-152;

   visits Elizabeth, 152;

   Mary's hymn, 153;

   is married to Joseph, 154-156;

   journeys to Bethlehem, 183, 184;

   birth of Christ there, 185;

   her inner history and development, 191-193, 249-250;

   her Purification, 197;

   flees into Egypt, 214;

   returns to Nazareth, 221;

   her conduct at Christ's first visit to Jerusalem, 236, 248;

   her request at the marriage of Cana, 359-362;

   lives at Capernaum, 364;

   her visit to Christ, 576, 577;

   under the Cross is entrusted to St. John, ii. 601-603

   Masada, i. 120, 124;

   last siege of, 242

   Matthew, St., character of his Gospel, i. 54;

   presentation of Messiah in it, 54, ii. 127, 128;

   Old Testament quotations in i. 206, 458, 459;

   Christ calls him, 514-519;

   he makes a feast for Christ, 519-521, 663

   Matthias, R., executed by Herod, i. 217, 218

   Meals, among the Jews, attitude at, i. 564;

   the principal meal, ii. 205, 206;

   food of the Babylonian and Palestinian Jews, 206;

   the benedictions, 206;

   the morning meal, 206, 207;

   position of guests at, 207, 208;

   wines and articles of diet at, 208, 209;

   etiquette at, 209, 210

   Measures, kinds of, i. 593, 594, ii. 268;

   dry measure, ii. 269

   Meir, R., treatment of lepers by, i. 495

   Memra, the, in the Targumim, i. 47, 48

   Menelaus, High?Priest, i. 121

   Messiah, the, fiction of the two Messiahs, i. 78-80, ii. 434, 435;

   names of the Messiah, i. 151, 154, 155, 175;

   0. and N.T. view of Him, 160-162,

   O.T. passages Messianically applied by the Synagogue, 163;

   Rabbinic ideal of Him, 164, 165;

   the sufferings and woes of Messiah, 165, 205; ii. 433, 434;

   no room for His priestly office in Rabbinism, i. 167;

   the signs, time, and expectation of His coming, 168-171, 293, 308; ii.
   68, 69, 154, 433, 434;

   Jewish views of the nature, premundane existence, power, and position
   of Messiah, i. 171, 172, 175-179;

   views of Messiah, in the Pseudepigrapha and Targumim, 172-175;

   Jewish views as to His birth and birthplace; 175, 178, 180, 181;

   the star of Messiah, 211, 212;

   Messiah abides forever, ii. 393;

   His descent, 405, 406;

   the days of Messiah, wars and conquests in, i. 292, 293; ii. 436, 437;

   meaning of the term Kingdom of the Messiah' as distinguished from the
   future age' and age to come' i. 267; ii .435, 441;

   the feast in Messianic days, i. 549, 550;

   the teaching, law and ritual then, ii. 33, 437, 438;

   the Resurrection by Him, 436;

   Jerusalem and Palestine in His days, 437-439;

   the Gentiles in the days of Messiah, 439, 440;

   death then abolished, 439

   Mesusah, the, i. 76, 228

   Metatron, the, i. 47

   Methurgeman, duties of the, i. 10, 11, 436, 444, 445

   Michael, the angel, how regarded, i. 142

   Midrash, the, origin of, i. 11, 21;

   subject of, 94, 102

   Migdal Eder, prophecy concerning, i. 186, 187

   Minim, Siphrey, i. 23, 33

   Miracles of Christ, the wine at Cana, i. 351, 363;

   cure of nobleman's son at Capernaum, 422-429;

   the impotent man at Bethesda, 462-471;

   the draught of fishes, 476, 477;

   the demonised in Synagogue at Capernaum, 484, 485;

   Peter's wife's mother and many sick, 485-488;

   the leper, 491-498;

   the paralytic, 499-506;

   the centurion's servant, 544-551;

   raises the young man at Nain, 552-560;

   heals two blind men and one demonised dumb, 573;

   stills the storm on the Lake, 599-605;

   heals the demonised at Gerasa, 606, 615;

   heals the woman who touched Him and raises Jairus's daughter, 617-634;

   feeds 5000 at Bethsaida, 676-685;

   walks on the Lake and stills the storm, 687-695;

   heals the Syrophoenician's daughter, ii. 38-43;

   one deaf and dumb, 45-47;

   one blind at Bethsalda Julias, 47, 48;

   two blind men, 48-50;

   the man with the withered hand, 59-62;

   He feeds 4000, 63-67;

   heals the lunatic, 166-169;

   the stater for the tribute-money, 113-115;

   He heals the man born blind, 117-187;

   heals one blind, dumb, and demonised, in Peræa, 197;

   the woman with the spirit of infirmity, 224-225;

   He raises Lazarus, 308-325;

   heals ten lepers, 328-331;

   two blind men at Jericho, 355, 356;

   curses the fig?tree, and it withers, 374, 377;

   the last draught of fishes, 648, 649;

   grounds for rejecting the miraculous, i. 558-560;

   evidences for the miraculous, 602-605; ii. 308-312;

   the miracles of Christ, how viewed by the Jewish authorities, i. 575,
   576;

   when not expected by the disciples, 689, 690, ii. 66, 67

   Mishnah, the, origin of, i. 11;

   contents and order of, 101, 102;

   its language, 102, 103

   Money, drachm, ii. 257;

   stater, 114;

   sela, 258;

   talent, 294, 459;

   perutah, 388;

   mina, 466

   Morning Sacrifice, i. 133, 134

   Moses, at the Transfiguration, ii. 97, 98

   Mothers in Israel, i. 229, 230

   Noeoeman. See Pharisees.

   Nain, description of locality, i. 553;

   Christ raises the young man at, 554-556

   Nard, price of, ii. 358

   Nathanael, or Bartholomew, call of, i. 348-350

   Nationalists. See Zealots.

   Nazareth, description of, i. 144-148;

   the Holy Family return there, 221;

   no learned Rabbis there, 233;

   can any good come out of Nazareth? 349, 350;

   Christ's first visit there, 430, 456;

   He is cast out of the city, 456, 457;

   Christ's second visit to the place, 635-640;

   He leaves it for ever, 640

   Nehardaa, Jews of, i. 7, 8, 14

   Nestorians, the, i. 15

   New Year's Day, i. 229

   Nicodemus, Christ's teaching to, 381-388;

   St. John's retrospect on the interview, 389;

   Nicodemus remonstrates with the Sanhedrists at the Feast of
   Tabernacles, ii. 162, 163;

   brings spices to embalm Christ, 617

   Nisibis, i. 8

   Oil, value of, ii. 268, 269

   Olives, Mount of, Christ's last discourse on, ii. 431, 432

   Onkelos, the proselyte, repelled by Shammaltes, i. 239

   Ophel, i. 111, ii. 157

   Ordination among the Rabbis, ii. 381, 382

   Orpheus, spurious citations from, i. 36

   Palestine, the land' i. 7;

   its boundaries, and gradations of sanctity, 84-86, 87;

   Hellenic and Herodian cities in, 87, 88;

   political government of, at time of Christ, 87, 88, 236, 237;

   the ideal state in Messianic days, ii. 438, 439

   Parables of Christ, characteristics of, and reasons for, i. 579-586;

   meaning of the term, 580;

   the sower, 586-588, 594, 595;

   the seed growing secretly, 588, 589;

   the tares, 589-592;

   the mustard?seed and leaven, 592-594;

   the treasure hid and pearl of great price, 595, 596;

   the drawnet, 596, 597;

   the watching servants, ii. 218, 219;

   the good Samaritan, 234-239;

   the importunate neighbor, 239-242;

   the foolish rich man, 243-246,

   the barren fig tree, 246-248;

   the great supper, 248-252;

   the lost sheep, 254-256;

   the lost drachm, 256, 257;

   the lost son, 257-263;

   the unjust steward, 266-274;

   Dives and Lazarus, 275-283;

   the unjust judge, 284-289;

   the Pharisee and the Publican, 289-293;

   the unmerciful servant, 293-297;

   the laborers in the vineyard, 415-421;

   the two sons, 421, 422;

   the evil husbandmen, 422-425;

   the marriage feast and wedding?garment, 425-430;

   the ten virgins, 453-459;

   the talents, 459-465;

   the minas, 465-467;

   the three series of Parables, i. 579-580;

   character of first and second series, ii. 233, 234

   Paracletes, the two, ii. 515-518.

   See also Holy Spirit

   Parashah, i. 29

   Passover, Feast of, pilgrims at, i. 229, 242-243;

   the two first days of the Feast, 246;

   the first Passover in Christ's Ministry, 366, 367, 378;

   Christ's last Passover, ii. 479;

   the preparations for the Feast, 479, 480;

   the Paschal meal, the benedictions, 496, 497;

   the first cup and the hand washing, 497;

   the first cup and the hand washing, 497;

   the ritual at table, 504, 505;

   the sop, 506, 507;

   time of the Paschal Supper, 507;

   the midnight preparation in the Temple, 508;

   end of the Paschal meal, 511-513;

   what rendered unfit to eat the Passover, 566-568;

   the Chagigah as Pesach, 568;

   the ceremony of the wavesheaf and second Paschal day, 613, 618, 619

   Patræ, Jewish inscriptions at, i. 70

   Paul, St., in Arabia, i. 14;

   his journey to Rome, 69, 70

   Peræa, seat of Herod's government, i. 395;

   Christ's Ministry there, ii. 127, 128;

   time and character of it, 195, 196;

   Christ's miraculous power there, 197, 223-225;

   He is warned to leave Peræa, 301;

   Christ's final journey through it, 328

   Peshat, i. 21, 41

   Peter, Simon, in Babylonia, i. 14;

   first call of, 347, 348;

   final call of, 474-477;

   Christ cures his wife's mother, 485, 486;

   Peter sees the raising of Jairus's daughter, 629;

   he walks on the water, 693, 694;

   is taught concerning clean and unclean, ii. 23, 34;

   his dispute with St. Paul, 24;

   his testimony at Capernaum, 36;

   his confession at Cæsarea Philippi, and its import, 80-86, 91, 92;

   he tempts Christ, 86, 87;

   witnesses the Transfiguration, 92-98;

   his conduct as to the tribute money, 111-114;

   he asks about forgiving his brother, 115-117, 124, 125;

   what reward should they have? 343;

   refuses to let Christ wash his feet at table, 499, 500;

   questions about the betrayer, 506;

   asks about Christ's going away, 509;

   Christ warns him of his denial, and has interceded for him, 535-537;

   resemblance between Judas and Peter, 535, 536;

   is taken into Gethsemane, 538;

   smites the ear of Malchus, 544;

   denies Christ, 550-564;

   his repentance, 564;

   Peter goes to the sepulchre on Easter Day, 633, 634;

   Christ appears to him, 642;

   Christ's three questions and commission to him by the Lake of Galilee,
   647-650

   Pharisees, contempt of, for Hellenists, i. 7;

   their origin and political history, 96, 97, 310;

   not a sect, 310;

   number, degrees, and admission into the fraternity, 311, 312;

   how described in Talmud, and viewed by Sadducees, 312;

   their characteristics, 312, 313; ii. 276, 277, 290, 291;

   their dogmatic, ceremonial, and juridical differences from Sadducees,
   i. 314-321;

   derivation of the name, 323;

   their deputation to John the Baptist, 340-342,

   they unite with Herod to imprison the Baptist, 658;

   they track Christ, ii. 51, 52;

   the controversies about handwashing, 9-15;

   about Sabbath observance, 52-62;

   they seek a sign from heaven, 68-70;

   their leaven, 70, 71;

   their treatment of the man born blind, 185-187;

   their interpretation of Christ's power, 197, 198;

   the morning meal in the Pharisee's house in Peræa; Christ's exposure of
   their hypocrisy, 204-215;

   Christ teaches concerning their giving, 248, 249;

   their view of the future blessedness; 249;

   the sinners and the righteous, 256;

   their hypocrisy in hospitality, and self?seeking, 303, 304;

   they question Christ about divorce, 331, 332;

   their anger at Christ's welcome in Jerusalem, 368;

   the question of tribute, 384;

   their arguments with the Sadducees as to the Resurrection, 397-399;

   their views on Levirate marriage, 400;

   Christ's last denunciations and woes on them, 407-414

   Pharos, LXX., translated there, i. 25;

   feast celebrated there, 30

   Phasaelis, built, i. 119

   Phasaelus, brother of Herod I., history of, i. 123, 124

   Pheroras, brother of Herod I., history of, i. 126, 127

   Philip, the Apostle, call of, i. 348-350;

   the Greek proselytes come to him, ii. 390;

   his question after the Paschal Supper, 515

   Philip, son of Herod I., political history of, i. 219, 220;

   his character and works, 262;

   marries Salome, 673

   Philo of Alexandria, i. 36, 39;

   his personal history, 40, 77;

   Greek learning and philosophy in his works, 40, 44;

   his mode of interpreting Scripture, 41-43;

   his theology, 43, 44;

   his potencies' and words,' 44-46;

   the Logos in his works, 48-50;

   differences as compared with the Epistle to the Hebrews, 49, 50;

   cosmology and ethics of Philo, 50-53;

   comparison of his works and St. John's Gospel, 56;

   his views on the restoration of the Dispersion, 82

   Phylacteries, or Tephillin, i. 76;

   women dispensed from, i. 228;

   the compartments in, 315;

   ostentation in wearing them, ii. 408

   Pilate, Pontius, cruelty and harshness of, i. 242, 251, 272;

   slaughters the Galileans, ii. 221;

   gave the band of soldiers, 541, 542;

   Christ brought before him, 565-581;

   he is made to condemn Christ, 580, 581;

   allows the crurifragium, 612, 613;

   gives Joseph Christ's body, 615, 616

   Pollio, i. 128

   Pompeii, Jewish tombstones at, i. 70

   Pompey, captures Jerusalem, i. 122;

   settles disputes, 123

   Prætorium, in Jerusalem, ii. 566

   Prayer, Rabbinic injunctions as to attitude in, i. 438;

   as to interruptions in, ii. 137, 138

   Priesthood, genealogies of, kept, i. 9

   Prophecy and Assumption of Moses, age and contents off i. 81

   Proselytes, some Greek proselytes desire to see Jesus, ii. 389-392;

   Jewish views on the making of proselytes, 411, 412;

   would the Gentiles in Messianic days be such? 439, 440

   Proseuche, i. 76

   Psalter of Solomon, date and character of, i. 38;

   description of Messiah and Messianic times in, 79, 80, 174

   Pseudepigraphic Writings, general character and number of, i. 37

   Pseudo?Philo, i. 36

   Ptolemy I. (Lagi), projects the Museum in Alexandria, i. 24;

   rules Samaria, 379

   Ptolemy II. (Philadelphus), his love of books, i. 24;

   has O.T. translated, 25

   Ptolemy III. (Euergetes), i. 25, 27

   Ptolemy (Philometor), i. 36

   Publicans, classes of, i. 515-517;

   character of, 516, 517;

   the call and feast of Matthew, 518-520

   Purification after childbirth, ceremonial and sacrifices for, i.
   195-197

   Purifications. Talmudic tractates on, i. 357, 358;

   dispute about, between the Baptist's disciples and a Jew, 391;

   Christ's woe on Pharisaic hypocrisy, concerning, ii. 413.

   See also Washing of hands

   Purim, Feast of, how celebrated, i. 229

   Puteoli, Jewish settlement in, i. 70

   Rabbis, subject of study of, i. 11,

   roles of etiquette for, ii. 209, 210;

   their authority and place, 381, 407;

   manner of ordination of, 382;

   Christ's charges against them, 407-409;

   their position in both worlds, 408, 410;

   their power of binding and loosing, 85, 645

   Rabbinic Theology, avoidance of anthropomorphisms in, i. 28, 29, 43;

   the allegorical method in, 35, 36;

   compared with that of Philo, 42-45;

   Jehovah and Elohim in, 45, 46;

   Rabbinic views on creation, 50-51;

   on the heavenly Academy, 85; ii. 15, 16;

   Rabbinic hatred of Gentiles and idolatry, i. 85, 89-92;

   essential contrariety of Rabbinism to the teaching of Christ, 84, 145;

   views of Israel's receiving the Law, 90, ii. 142-144;

   place given to Scripture by Rabbinism, i. 105-108, ii. 17;

   the conception of good in, i. 144; ii. 339;

   contempt of Rabbinism for Galileans and the ignorant, i. 144, 145, 508;

   no doctrine of original sin, 165;

   views on death, 166;

   the two inclinations in man, 167;

   Rabbinic accounts of trials of O.T. heroes, 292;

   views of sin and the sinner, 507-511;

   Rabbinic teaching about penitence and penitents, 509-513; ii. 245, 246,
   253, 258;

   fasting, i. 512, 513;

   the children of God and of Gehinnom in, 551;

   the Rabbinic ordinance of handwashing, ii. 9-15;

   decisions as to canonicity of certain books, 12,

   the 18 decrees, 13, 14;

   Rabbinic views of God's doings in heaven, 15, 16;

   the ordinance of vows, 18-21;

   the Sabbath laws, 52-62, 153, 154;

   signs from heaven to confirm certain Rabbis, 68, 69;

   signification of salt in Rabbinism, 121;

   teaching as to angels, 122;

   views on praying, 137, 138;

   prayers of certain Rabbis, 291;

   their authority, whence derived, 151;

   their views on the sudden appearance of Messiah, 154;

   their laws about testimony, 169;

   the doctrine of sin before birth, 178, 179;

   the spiritual leaders Parnasin, 188, 189;

   Rabbinic teaching about nourishment and redemption, 196;

   how to inherit eternal life, 235, 236;

   separation of Israel according to, 237;

   the merits of the fathers, 290;

   Rabbinic teaching about forgiveness, 296, 297;

   about divorce, 332-335;

   the renovation of the world, 343;

   Rabbinic teaching about the Resurrection, 397-399, 402, 403;

   teaching about the light and heavy commandments, 404, 405, 407;

   the abodes of the blessed according to the Rabbis, 513, 514.

   See also Mishna, Midrash, Halakkah, Haggadah, Talmud

   Redemption of the firstborn, i. 194, 195

   Resurrection, Christ's teaching to Martha concerning it, ii. 321, 322;

   Sadducean attacks on the doctrine, 397-399;

   Jewish and Pharisaic views on it, 398, 399, 402, 403;

   Christ's teaching concerning it, 401-403;

   the Messiah's part in it, 436;

   the Resurrection of Christ: the narrators of it, 621, 622;

   the disciples' expectation concerning the event, 623-625;

   St. Paul's statements concerning it, 625, 626;

   hypotheses concerning it, 626-629;

   the women at the sepulchre, 630, 633;

   Mary Magdalene there, 631-636;

   the guard see the angel, 631, 632;

   Peter and John at the sepulchre, 633, 634;

   the report of the body having been stolen, 636, 637;

   Christ appears to the two who went to Emmaus, 638-642;

   appears to Peter, 642;

   to the disciples on Easter evening, 642-646;

   appears the next Sunday, 646, 647;

   is seen by the Lake of Galilee, 647-651;

   other manifestations of Christ, 651;

   our Resurrection?body, what will it be? 635, 636

   Revelation, Christ's teaching as to its unity, ii. 404, 406

   Roads in Palestine, the three great caravan ones, i. 147

   Rome, views there entertained about the Jews, i. 65-67;

   political history and standing of the Jews there, 67, 68, 70-72;

   Jewish slaves and freedmen in Rome, 67, 68;

   their quarters, Synagogues, and inscriptions, 68-70;

   Romans proselytes, 71;

   Jewish legend of Messiah at the gate of Rome, 175;

   political, social, and religious history of the Roman Empire under
   Augustus, 256-260;

   Jewish legend of the origin of Rome, ii. 439

   Sabbath, the, Jewish modes of making it a delight, i. 437, ii. 52, 114,
   115;

   Christ's controversy on the second first' Sabbath, ii. 53-56;

   Rabbinic views of labour on the Sabbath, 56-58;

   as to danger to life on it, 59-61;

   the O. and N.T. teaching concerning the Sabbath, 56?59;

   Christ heals the man with the withered hand on it, 61, 62;

   is accused of breaking the Sabbath again, 181, 182;

   His Peræan teaching concerning healing on it, 224, 225, 303

   Sabbatyon, river, i. 15

   Sadducees, origin of, i. 96, 238, 310;

   characteristics of their system, 313;

   dogmatic, ritual, and juridical views differing from the Pharisees of,
   314-321;

   they were a minority, 322;

   origin of the name, 322-324;

   had no sympathy with the Baptist, 334, 335;

   identified with the Herodians by St. Matthew, ii. 67;

   they seek a sign from heaven, 68-70;

   their leaven, 70, 71;

   their attitude towards Christ, 396, 397;

   their arguments with the Pharisees and with Christ as to the
   Resurrection, 397-399, 401, 402;

   their views on the Levirate marriage, 400

   Sadduk, a Shammaite, joins Judas the Nationalist, i. 241

   Safed, i. 146

   Saliva, mode of healing by, ii. 45, 48, 180, 182

   Salorne, wife of Zebedee. See Zebedee

   Salome, daughter of Herodias, dances before Herod, i. 672;

   her end, 673

   Salome, sister of Herod I., compasses murder of her husband, of
   Mariamme, Soemus, and Costobarus, i. 125, 126;

   releases the Jews shut up at Jericho, 219

   Salt, Christ's teaching about its meaning, ii. 121

   Samaria, province of, Biblical history of, i. 394-396;

   its temple, 396;

   later political history of, 397, 398;

   how viewed by Jews, and attitude of Samaria towards Judæa, 398-402;

   beauty of the Plain of Samaria, 404, 405

   Samaria, or Sebaste, built, i. 88, 119;

   heathen temple at, 88;

   fate of, 397, 398

   Samaritans, meaning of the designation in Jewish writings, i. 399, 400;

   doctrines held by the Samaritans, 402, 403;

   they refuse to receive Christ, ii. 131;

   the healed Samaritan leper, 329-331

   Sanhedrin, the, of Jerusalem, signals of the new month by, i. 9;

   of supreme authority, 12;

   actual power of, at the time of Christ, 120, 128, 238, ii. 556;

   origin of, i. 97;

   places of, meeting, 114, 371;

   rank in it, and privileges thereby conferred, 96, 131, ii. 555;

   character of decisions made by Sanhedrin, i. 129, ii. 557, 584,

   teaching by members of it on the Temple?terrace, i. 247;

   sent no official deputation to the Baptist, 309, 310;

   did not sit on Sabbaths, ii. 182;

   the Sanhedrist council against Christ, 326;

   mode of ordination, 381, 382, 553-555;

   Christ's trial illegal according to their laws, 553;

   the three tribunals, 554;

   regular mode of procedure in trial by the Sanhedrin, 555, 556.

   See Trial of Christ

   Satan or Sammael, compasses the Fall of Man, i. 165;

   his assaults upon Abraham, 292;

   his conquest by Messiah, 292, 293;

   Christ sees his fa!l, ii. 140;

   also named Shomron, 174

   Schools in Palestine, i. 230, 231;

   teachers in, 231;

   subjects of study in, 232

   Scribes or Sopherim, studies of, i. 11;

   their position and dignity, 93,

   origin, growth, and decay in power of, the institution, 94-96

   Seleucidæ, troubles of Palestine under, i. 96, 121

   Seleucus I. (Nicator) grants the Jews of Asia Minor citizenship, i. 71

   Seleucus IV. (Philopator) conquers Samaria, i. 397

   Sephiroth. See Kabbalah.

   Sepphoris, seized by Judas, the Nationalist, i. 241

   Septuagint, i. 23;

   legend of its origin and name, 24-26;

   its age, 26;

   its characteristics, 27, 28;

   how regarded and used by Hellenists and Rabbis, 29, 30

   Sermon on the Mount, the, contrasted and compared with Rabbinic
   writings, i. 524-526, 531-541;

   its arrangement and divisions, 527, 528;

   the Beatitudes, 529, 530;

   alms, prayer and fasting in it 530, 531;

   analysis of the third part, 531;

   its effect on the hearers, 541

   Seventy, mission of the, ii. 135;

   differences between it and the sending of the Twelve, 135, 136;

   their commission and return, 137-142

   Shammai, his life and teaching, i. 95, 128, 129;

   character of his school, 239, 240;

   the eighteen decrees, how passed, 239, ii. 13, 14;

   views of the school on hand-washing, ii. 13;

   on divorce, 333;

   the burdens bound by them, 407

   Shaul, Abba, curse pronounced by, i. 372

   Shechem, real capital of Samaria, i. 397, 398;

   the city of fools,' 400;

   the valley of Shechem, 404, 405

   Shekkinah, the, removed from earth at the Fall of man, i. 166;

   lingers over the wall of the Temple, 168

   Sheliach Tsibbur, Christ acts as, in the Nazareth Synagogue, i. 439

   Shema, the, reason of its order, i. 268

   Shemayah, or Sameas, saying of, i. 128

   Sibylline Oracles, lament of i. 6;

   Jewish personation in, 36;

   date and country of, 38;

   passed for Erythræan and Cumæan, 38;

   the restoration of Israel referred to in them; their presentation of
   Messiah, 172, 173

   Sickness, Jewish views concerning, i. 554

   Siloam, Pool of, i. 111;

   the procession thither on the Feast of Tabernacles, ii. 157, 158;

   the man born blind sent to wash there, 180;

   lessons of the fall of the tower there, 222, 223

   Simeon, meets the Holy Family in the Temple, i. 198;

   his song and prophecy, 199, 200

   Simeon, grandson of Hillel, interferes concerning Temple traffic, i.
   370, 371

   Simon I. (Jus), described in Ecclus., i. 26, 121

   saying of, 95;

   sees a vision of an angel every year, 138

   Simon, the Cyrenian, ii. 582, 587

   Simon, son of Gamaliel, views on Samaritans of, i. 400

   Simon, ben Jochai, saying of, i. 540, ii. 291

   Simon, the Pharisee, the meal given to Christ in his house, and the
   woman which was a sinner there, i. 563-569

   Simon, ben Shetach, i. 96

   Simon Zelotes, a cousin of Christ, i. 251, 522, ii. 603

   Sirach, Son of, translates his grandfather's work, i. 26;

   Grecian thought in it, 32

   Sod, i. 21

   Soemus, murdered, i. 126

   Sowing, modes of, i. 586

   Star of the Magi, i. 204, 205;

   probable explanation of it, 211-213;

   Jewish expectation of a star, 211, 212

   Stoning, Place of, ii. 585

   Sagoth, or couples, the, i. 95-97

   Susanna, ministers to Christ, i. 573

   Swine, keeping them prohibited to Jews, ii. 260

   Sychar, i. 405;

   roads to the place, 405;

   its well, 409;

   Christ at Jacob's Well there, 405-420

   Synagogue, the Great, duration of, i. 94, 95

   Synagogues, Hellenist, i. 19, 29, 30, 77;

   the batlanim of, 76, 433, 434;

   their tendency in the Dispersion and in Palestine, 77, 433, 434;

   the Jerusalem Synagogues, 119, 432;

   origin of Synagogues, 431, 432;

   plan and structure of Synagogues, according to that at Capernaum,
   434-436;

   regulations as to conduct in, going to, and returning from, a
   Synagogue, 437;

   the officials, 438, 439;

   the service, 439-445;

   Jewish preachers and sermons in, 445-450;

   Christ in the Synagogue of Nazareth, 452-456

   Syracuse, Jewish colony at, i. 69

   Syria, reckoned part of the land' i. 7

   Syrophoenician Woman, healing of her daughter by Christ, ii. 38-43

   Tabernacles, Feast of, how kept, i. 229;

   pilgrims at it, and how treated, ii. 129, 148, 149;

   Christ goes up to it privately, 131;

   the booths, 145, 146;

   Chol ha Moed of, 148;

   symbolism of the Feast, 149, 150;

   the illuminations, 150-165;

   the services of the great day of the Feast, 156-160;

   the Lulabh and Ethrog, 157

   Tabor, distant view of, i. 146

   Talmud, or Gemara, Metatron in, i. 47;

   age and contents of the Jerusalem Talmud, 103, 104;

   of the Babylon Talmud, 104;

   number of tractates and pages in the Babylon, 104, 105;

   its Boraithas, 104;

   the birth of Messiah in the Talmud, 175

   Tanchuma, R., saying of, i. 178

   Targumim, origin of, i. 10, 11, 29;

   to write them forbidden at first, 10, 11;

   Memra in, 47, 48;

   the Messiah in, 175

   Targum Jonathan, when sanctioned, i. 11;

   Metatron in, 47

   Targum Onkelos, i. 11;

   absence of anthropomorphisms in, 28;

   Memra in, see Memra, also Appendix II. pp. 659-662

   Tarichæa, battle of, ii. 68, 72;

   the disciples there, 76

   Temple, the, how regarded by the Jews, i. 3, 4, 235;

   Gentile gifts and worshippers in it, 73, 74;

   its porches, 112, 244, 245, ii. 151;

   bridge, i. 112;

   its gates, 244;

   the courts, 245, 246;

   the Sanctuary and Most Holy Place, 245, 246;

   the veils, ii. 610;

   the shops and Temple market, i. 114, 244, 369-372;

   the moneychangers, 114, 369;

   the Temple rebuilt by Herod, 111-120;

   its beauty, 243;

   the Sanhedrin in it, 114;

   no Synagogue or Academy there, 246, 247;

   beggars in the Temple, i. 114, ii. 177;

   charity to poor offerers in it, i. 130;

   the morning sacrifice in the Temple, 133;

   the courses of priests in it, 135; its services a superfluity to
   Rabbinism, 144;

   the teaching on the Temple terrace, 247;

   the Temple?guard: cannot seize Christ, ii. 155, 161, 162;

   the Treasury, 165;

   the Trumpets, 165, 387;

   private prayer in the Temple, 289;

   its second cleansing; 377, 378;

   the children's Hosanna in it, 378, 379;

   the widow's two mites: gifts to the Treasury, 387-389;

   Christ's last view of the Temple, 431;

   the disciples' question as to its destruction, 431, 432;

   the midnight service in it on 15th Nisan, 508;

   the renting of the Veil: Jewish legends of such a portent, 610-612

   Temptation of Christ, i. 291-307

   Ten Tribes, seat of, i. 14, 15;

   their return expected, 15

   Testament, New, quotations from Old in, i. 206

   Testament, Old, grand unity of, i. 160, 161;

   copies of, possessed by the people, 232, 233

   Theodotus, i. 36

   Therapeutæ, i. 61

   Therumoth, from what countries due, i. 9, 86;

   once kept close to the roll of the Law, ii. 12

   Thomas, Didymus, call of, i. 521;

   his conduct when leaving Peræa, ii. 315;

   question of, after the Paschal Supper, 514;

   his disbelief and confession after the Resurrection. 645, 646

   Tiberias, built, i. 88, 261, 657;

   its site, 261, 262;

   scenes in the last war at, ii. 72

   Tithes, due from Babylonians, i. 9;

   Christ's teaching concerning the Rabbinic law of tithing, ii. 212;

   His woe on the Pharisaic ordinances of, 412, 413

   Torah, or Law, dignity and age of, i. 35, 85

   Tosephtoth, i. 103

   Towel, with which Christ girded Himself, ii. 501, 502

   Transfiguration of Christ, ii. 94-101

   Trial of Christ, not in regular Sanhedrin, nor according to Jewish law,
   ii. 553, 556-558;

   the false witnesses, 558;

   the charge of the sign' 558-560;

   Caiaphas' adjuration and Christ's answer, 560, 561;

   the condemnation, 561;

   the Sanhedrists' morning meeting, 565;

   Christ before Pilate, 565-569;

   the dream of Pilate's wife, 569;

   the scruples and charges of the Sanhedrists, 565, 566, 569, 570;

   Pilate questions Christ 570, 571;

   He is sent to Antipas, 572;

   Pilate seeks to save Him, 577;

   Barabbas, chosen, 577;

   Pilate washes his hands, 577, 578;

   Christ scourged, derided and sentenced, 579-581

   Tribute to Cæsar. See Cæsar

   Tribute, Temple, amount of, i. 367, 368;

   money changers for, 367-371;

   its obligation, ii. 111;

   privileges accorded to some in paying it, 111;

   time of year for so doing, 111;

   how applied by Vespasian, 112;

   Peter and the tribute money: the miracle of the stater, 112-114

   Tsitsith, the, i. 76, 277, 623, 626

   Tyre, fair at, 82?83.

   Tyre and Sidon, borders of, Christ's stay there, ii. 37, 38

   Tyropoeon Valley, i. 112

   Unknown Feast, Christ alone there, i. 461, 462;

   the miracle at Bethesda, 462-469;

   His teaching at the Feast, 465, 466, 469-471

   Valerius Gratus, Procurator, i. 242

   Venusia, Jewish tombstones at, i. 70

   Vows, Rabbinic ordinances concerning, ii. 17-21;

   the hand on the Qorban,' 19;

   distinctions between vows, oaths, and ban, 19, 20;

   Christ's woe on vows contrary to the fifth commandment, 412

   Wages in Palestine, ii. 417

   Washing of hands, Rabbinic ordinances of, ii. 9, 10;

   the ceremony, 10-12;

   Rabbinic teaching on the subject, 13, 15, 210;

   Christ's attitude towards this tradition, and his teaching concerning
   it, 15, 205-211

   Watches, night, how many, i. 687, 688

   Weeks, Feast of, how kept, i. 229

   Wheat, price of, ii. 269

   Wines, various kinds of, ii. 208

   Wisdom of Solomon, character of, i. 31-33;

   allegorical interpretations in, 34

   Woes of Christ, on Chorazin and Bethsaida, ii. 138, 139;

   on the Pharisees, 212, 410-414;

   on the Scribes, 213

   Writing materials, ii. 270;

   inks, 270, 271;

   pens, &c., 271;

   the tablet, 271, 272

   Xystos, in Jerusalem, i. 118

   Yemen, kings of, professed the Jewish faith, i. 203

   Yetser ha Ra, i. 52, 167;

   final destruction of, ii. 441

   Yetser tobh, i. 52, 53, 167

   Yoke of the Kingdom, ii. 142-144

   Zacchæus, ii. 352-355

   Zacharias, home, wife, and character of, i. 135-137;

   the annunciation of John the Baptist to, 137-140,

   is dumb till the naming of his son, 140-158;

   an idiot' priest, 141;

   his hymn, 158, 159

   Zadok, disciple of Antigonus of Socho, i. 322

   Zadok, High?Priest, did not give their name to Sadducees, i. 322, 323

   Zealots, Nationalists, or Cananæans, rise and political history of, i.
   237, 238-242;

   the Sicarii, 241, 242;

   their presence in Christ's family, 242;

   how described by Josephus, 243;

   their principles, ii. 383, 385

   Zebedee, sons of, probably Christ's cousins, i. 251;

   meaning of the name, 474;

   request of the mother of his children, ii. 116, 346, 347,

   she is under the cross, 602, 603

   Zechariah, the murdered prophet, legend of, ii. 413, 414

   Zeqenim, i. 96;

   Christ denounces their traditionalism, ii. 213;

   the question of one of them about the greatest commandment, 403-405

   Zugoth. See Sugoth.

     __________________________________________________________________

                                   INDEX II.

   of passages from the four gospels referred to in these volumes.

   St. Matt.

   ch.        Ver

   i.
   i. 144

   24                                                        i. 251

   25                                                        i. 180

   ii.
     i. 212

   1-18                                                     i. 202

   4                                                          i.  93

   6                                                          i. 206

   7                                                          i. 205

   11                                                        i. 207

   15                                                        i. 162

   16                                                        i. 205

   19-23                                                   i. 217

   22                                                        i. 183, 221

   22, 23                                                  i. 221

   iii.         1-12
   i. 255

   2                                                          i. 270; ii.
   421

   4                                                          i. 264

   7                                                          i. 309, 310,
   335

   12                                                        i. 273

   13-17                                                   i. 275

   14                                                        i. 279, 282

   17                                                        ii. 101

   iv.
   ii. 55

   1-11                                                     i. 291

   4                                                          i. 48

   12                                                        i. 422

   13                                                        i. 364, 394

   13-16                                                   i. 423

   13-17                                                   i. 423, 451,
   458

   17                                                        i. 422

   17, 23                                                  i. 270

   18, &c                                                 i. 473

   13-22                                                   i. 394, 423,
   472, ii. 55

   18, 22                                                  i. 457

   20, 22                                                  i. 474

   23                                                        i. 489

   v.
   i. 529

   v.-vii.
   i. 524, 529

   1-2                                                       i. 524

   3,10                                                     i. 270

   3-12                                                     i. 529

   6                                                          i. 537

   13                                                        ii. 119

   13-16                                                   i. 529

   15                                                        i. 537; ii.
   202

   16                                                        ii. 456

   17                                                        i. 537

   17-20                                                   i. 531

   18                                                        i. 234, 537

   19, 20                                                  i. 270

   20                                                        ii. 293

   21                                                        i. 538

   21-48                                                   i. 530

   22                                                        i. 538

   25                                                        i. 537

   25, 26                                                  ii. 221

   26                                                        i. 538

   29                                                        i. 537

   31                                                        i. 537

   35                                                        i. 538

   42-48                                                   i. 536

   46                                                        i. 537

   47                                                        i. 537

   vi.
   i. 530

   1-4                                                       i. 530

   2                                                          i. 196, 539

   5-15                                                     i. 530

   8                                                          i. 537

   9-13                                                     i. 536

   10                                                        i. 269

   12                                                        i. 537

   13                                                        i. 296, 539

   14, 15                                                  i. 539

   16-18                                                   i. 530

   18                                                        i. 537

   19-21                                                   i. 530; ii. 218

   22                                                        i. 537

   22, 23                                                  i. 530; ii. 202

   22-24                                                   i. 530

   24                                                        i. 537

   25                                                        i. 539

   25-33                                                   ii. 216

   25-34                                                   i. 530

   28-30                                                   i. 578

   32                                                        i. 537

   33                                                        i. 269, 270

   34                                                        i. 539

   vii.        1-5
   i. 531

   2                                                          i. 539

   3, 4                                                      i. 539

   6                                                          i. 531, 539

   7-12                                                     i. 531

   8                                                          i. 537

   9                                                          i. 537

   10                                                        i. 473, 537

   11                                                        i. 539

   12                                                        i. 535, ii.
   236

   13, 14                                                  i. 531, ii. 298

   14                                                        i. 540

   15                                                        i. 537

   15, 16                                                  i. 531

   16-20                                                   i. 578

   17-19                                                   i. 537

   17-20                                                   i. 531

   21                                                        i. 270

   21, 22                                                  ii. 300

   21-23                                                   i. 541, ii. 298

   22                                                        i. 537

   22, 23                                                  i. 528

   23                                                        i. 537, ii.
   301

   24-27                                                   i. 531

   25                                                        i. 578

   26                                                        i. 540

   28                                                        i. 478

   viii.       1, 5-15                                     i. 542

   2-4                                                       i. 489; ii.
   328

   4                                                          i. 619

   5                                                          i. 365, 426,
   548

   6                                                          i. 548

   7                                                          i. 548

   11                                                        i. 279; ii.
   301

   11, 12                                                  ii. 298, 329

   12                                                        i. 550, 551

   14                                                        i. 366, 549

   14-17                                                   i. 478

   17                                                        i. 342, 464,
   488

   18                                                        ii. 132

   18, 23-27                                             i. 599

   19-22                                                   ii. 126, 132

   28                                                        i. 607, 609

   28-34                                                   i. 606

   29                                                        ii. 132

   ix.
   ii. 49

   1                                                          i. 364, 423,
   457

   1-8                                                       i. 499

   2                                                          i. 504

   9-13                                                     i. 507

   10, 11                                                  ii. 254

   11                                                        i. 576

   14                                                        i. 576

   14-17                                                   i. 520, 654,
   662

   15                                                        i. 355, ii.
   469

   16, 17                                                  i. 665

   18-26                                                   i. 616

   20                                                        i. 76, 277

   27-31                                                   i. 573; ii. 44,
   48

   30                                                        i. 619

   32-35                                                   i. 570, 573;
   ii. 48

   33, 34                                                  i. 576

   34                                                        i. 573, 574

   35                                                        i. 270

   36                                                        i. 640

   36-38                                                   i. 640; ii.
   135, 137

   38                                                        ii. 536

   x.
   ii. 214, 216

   1, 5-42                                     i. 635

   1-15                                                     i. 644

   2-4                                                       i. 507, 521

   5                                                          i. 394; ii.
   135

   5-15                                                     i. 640, 641

   5-42                                                     i. 640

   7                                                          i. 270

   7, 8                                                      ii. 137

   8                                                          i. 480

   10                                                        i. 621, 622

   13                                                        ii. 138

   15                                                        i. 641

   16-18                                                   i. 644

   16-23                                                   i. 640, 644

   17                                                        i. 645

   18                                                        i. 645

   18-20                                                   ii. 214, 216

   21, 22                                                  i. 645

   21-25                                                   ii. 216

   23                                                        i. 644

   24-33                                                   i. 640

   24-34                                                   i. 648

   26                                                        i. 640, 649

   26-33                                                   ii. 214

   32                                                        i. 650

   34                                                        i. 650

   34-36                                                   ii. 220

   34-39                                                   i. 640

   37, 38                                                  ii. 304

   38                                                        ii. 469

   40-42                                                   i. 640, 651

   xi.         1
   i. 654

   2                                                          i. 337

   2-14                                                     i. 654

   2-19                                                     i. 666

   5                                                          i. 669

   7-19                                                     ii. 136

   11                                                        i. 270

   12                                                        i. 270; ii.
   277, 299

   12-14                                                   i. 670

   13-17                                                   i. 584

   14                                                        i. 338, 341;
   ii. 104

   14-19                                                   i. 670

   16-19                                                   i. 562, 574

   16-42                                                   ii. 138

   17, 18                                                  i. 576

   20-24                                                   ii. 135, 136,
   138

   20-30                                                   i. 561, 562

   21                                                        ii. 4

   25-27                                                   ii. 528

   25-30                                                   ii. 135

   27                                                        i. 500

   28-30                                                   i. 562; ii. 142

   xii.
   i. 573, ii. 55

   1-21                                                     ii. 51, 223

   7                                                          i. 520

   9-13                                                     ii. 223

   11                                                        ii. 225

   12                                                        ii. 60

   14                                                        ii. 197, 224

   16                                                        i. 619

   18                                                        i. 54

   22                                                        i. 296, 576,
   ii. 197

   22-32                                                   i. 573

   22-45                                                   i. 580; ii. 195

   23                                                        ii. 49

   24, &c                                                 i. 579

   25                                                        ii. 198

   25-28                                                   i. 295

   27-30                                                   ii. 198

   28                                                        i. 270

   30                                                        ii. 118

   31, 32                                                  ii. 214, 216

   33-37                                                   ii. 199

   38                                                        ii. 200

   38-40                                                   i. 375

   39                                                        ii. 200

   39-42                                                   ii. 200

   40                                                        ii. 469

   43                                                        i. 480

   43-45                                                   ii. 200

   46                                                        i. 251, 577

   46, 47                                                  ii. 202

   46-50                                                   i. 361, 570

   xiii.
   i. 579, 583, 586

   1, 2                                                      i. 579

   1-9, 24-33                                           i. 584

   1-52                                                     i. 578

   3                                                          i. 583

   3-9                                                       i. 269

   9-13                                                     i. 646

   10                                                        i. 583, 594

   11-15                                                   i. 375

   11, 19, 24, 31, 33, 44, 45, 47, 52        i. 270

   12                                                        i. 597

   13-15                                                   i. 584

   16                                                        i. 594, 597;
   ii. 135, 142, 144

   17                                                        i. 597

   18                                                        i. 586

   19                                                        i. 597

   19, 25, 39                                            i. 296

   22                                                        i. 597

   33                                                        i. 583

   34                                                        i. 583

   36                                                        i. 590, 594

   36, 55-52                                             i. 583

   38                                                        i. 270

   39                                                        i. 591, 597

   40                                                        i. 591

   41                                                        i. 270

   42                                                        i. 597

   43                                                        i. 270

   44                                                        i. 597

   45, 46                                                  i. 583

   46                                                        i. 597

   47                                                        i. 473, 597

   47, 48                                                  i. 269

   54                                                        i. 478

   54-58                                                   i. 457, 635

   55                                                        i. 252

   55, 56                                                  i. 251

   xiv.       1
   i. 657

   1-12                                                     i. 654

   3, 4                                                      i. 657

   5                                                          i. 657

   8                                                          i. 674

   12, 13                                                  i. 654

   13-21                                                   i. 676, 678

   14                                                        i. 464, 679

   15                                                        i. 606

   17                                                        i. 681

   19                                                        i. 683; ii.
   65

   20                                                        ii. 65

   22                                                        i. 606, 690,
   694

   22-36                                                   i. 686

   23                                                        i. 696, 687;
   ii. 374

   24                                                        i. 690, 692

   26                                                        i. 689

   33                                                        ii. 80

   34-36                                                   ii. 6

   36                                                        i. 76, 277

   xv.        1
   ii. 7

   1-9                                                       ii. 211

   1-20                                                     ii. 3

   2                                                          i. 314

   3, 6                                                      ii. 17

   10                                                        ii. 7, 22

   10, 11                                                  ii. 211

   11, 18                                                  i. 106

   12                                                        ii. 36, 77

   12-14                                                   ii. 7

   15                                                        i. 582

   15-20                                                   ii. 7

   17                                                        ii. 24

   19                                                        ii. 23

   21                                                        ii. 3, 37

   21-28                                                   ii. 37

   22                                                        ii. 49

   23                                                        ii. 38

   28                                                        ii. 42

   29-31                                                   ii. 44, 45

   32-xiv. 12                                            ii. 63

   36                                                        i. 473, 683

   39                                                        ii. 67

   xvi.       1
   ii. 396

   1-4                                                       ii. 200

   2, 3                                                      ii. 69, 220

   3                                                          ii. 342

   6, 7                                                      i. 419

   9, 10                                                    ii. 65

   14-28                                                   ii. 72

   16                                                        ii. 536

   19                                                        i. 270; ii.
   645

   21                                                        ii. 344, 470

   22                                                        ii. 500

   23                                                        ii. 346

   24-27                                                   ii. 87

   28                                                        i. 647; ii.
   88

   xvii.      1
   ii. 538

   1-8                                                       ii. 91

   9-21                                                     ii. 102

   12                                                        i. 340

   14                                                        ii. 105

   20                                                        i. 593, ii.
   306

   21                                                        i. 480; ii.
   106

   22                                                        ii. 470

   22, 23                                                  ii. 344

   22-xviii. 22                                           ii. 110

   23                                                        ii. 115

   25                                                        ii. 112

   xviii.
   i. 580

   1                                                          i. 270; ii.
   115

   1-6&c                                                  ii. 306

   1-14                                                     ii. 293

   3                                                          i. 270, 382;
   ii. 337

   6-35                                                     ii. 306

   10                                                        ii. 257

   11                                                        ii. 257

   12-14                                                   ii. 256

   15                                                        ii. 525

   15, 21                                                  ii. 115

   15-22                                                   ii. 293

   17                                                        ii. 84

   18                                                        ii. 645

   19                                                        ii. 124

   19, 20                                                  ii. 124, 521

   21                                                        ii. 115

   21, 22                                                  ii. 306, 377

   23                                                        i. 270, 568

   23-35                                                   ii. 284, 293

   26                                                        ii. 295

   29                                                        ii. 295

   35                                                        ii. 296

   xix.       1
   ii. 127, 293

   1, 2                                                      ii. 327, 331

   3                                                          ii. 332

   3-12                                                     ii. 331

   4                                                          ii. 334

   8                                                          i. 612

   10-12                                                   ii. 335

   12                                                        i. 269

   13-15                                                   ii. 336

   16                                                        ii. 338

   16-22                                                   ii. 235, 338

   20                                                        ii. 340

   21                                                        ii. 217

   23-30                                                   ii. 338

   24                                                        i. 270

   25                                                        i. 478

   28                                                        ii. 343

   29                                                        ii. 343

   30                                                        ii. 300, 416,
   420

   30-xx. 16                                             ii. 415

   xx.
   i. 580

   1                                                          i. 270, ii.
   247, 417

   2                                                          ii. 239

   6                                                          ii. 418

   15                                                        ii. 416

   16                                                        ii. 300, 344

   17                                                        ii. 126

   17-19                                                   ii. 338, 344,
   470

   18                                                        i. 93

   20                                                        ii. 116, 346

   20-28                                                   ii. 338, 346

   24                                                        ii. 337, 347

   28                                                        ii. 248, 606

   29-34                                                   ii. 349, 355

   30, 31                                                  ii. 49

   xxi.
   i. 580

   1-11                                                     ii. 363

   9, 15                                                    ii. 49

   12                                                        i. 244, 372,
   373

   12-22                                                   ii. 374

   15                                                        i. 93; ii.
   337

   18-22                                                   ii. 375

   22-32                                                   ii. 421

   23-27                                                   ii. 380, 383

   25                                                        i. 281, 287

   28-32                                                   ii. 415

   29, 32                                                  ii. 573

   31                                                        i. 270

   33                                                        ii. 247, 422

   33-46                                                   i. 646, ii. 415

   36                                                        ii. 422

   38                                                        ii. 469

   40, 41                                                  ii. 423

   43                                                        i. 270; ii.
   422

   44                                                        ii. 422

   45                                                        ii. 423

   xxii.
   i. 580

   1-9                                                       ii. 426

   1-14                                                     ii. 415, 425

   2                                                          i. 270

   10                                                        ii. 429

   10-14                                                   ii. 426

   12                                                        ii. 403

   15-22                                                   ii. 380, 384

   17                                                        ii. 112

   23-33                                                   ii. 396

   29-30                                                   ii. 401

   32                                                        i. 316

   33                                                        i. 478

   34                                                        ii. 403, 429

   34-40                                                   ii. 235, 396

   35                                                        i. 93; ii.
   234

   41-46                                                   ii. 380, 396,
   560

   42-45                                                   i. 248

   46                                                        ii. 406

   xxiii.
   ii. 204, 211, 396, 406

   2                                                          i. 436

   3, 4                                                      i. 101; ii.
   407

   5                                                          i. 76, 94,
   277, 624

   5-7                                                       ii. 407

   6                                                          i. 436

   8-12                                                     ii. 407

   11                                                        ii. 410

   13                                                        i. 270

   13-33                                                   ii. 410

   14                                                        ii. 411

   23                                                        i. 312

   25, 26                                                  i. 312, 358

   27                                                        ii. 320

   34-36                                                   ii. 413, 424

   37-39                                                   ii. 302, 414,
   431

   38, 39                                                  ii. 449

   39                                                        ii. 432

   xxiv.
   i. 580, 647; ii. 328, 331, 389, 431

   1                                                          ii. 415, 431

   3                                                          ii. 432,
   448, 449

   3-29                                                     i. 205

   4                                                          ii. 446

   4, 5                                                      ii. 448

   4-8                                                       ii. 446

   4-35                                                     ii. 445, 446

   6                                                          ii. 446

   6-8                                                       ii. 447

   8                                                          ii. 446

   9-14                                                     ii. 446, 447

   10-13                                                   ii. 448

   14                                                        ii. 448, 449,
   450

   15-28                                                   ii. 446, 448

   22                                                        ii. 449

   28                                                        ii. 449

   29                                                        ii. 450

   29-31                                                   ii. 449, 450

   30                                                        ii. 450

   31                                                        ii. 450

   32                                                        i. 582, 583

   32, 33                                                  ii. 450

   34                                                        i. 647; ii.
   449

   36                                                        ii. 451

   36-51                                                   ii. 445, 451,
   453

   37-40                                                   ii. 451

   40, 41                                                  ii. 451

   42                                                        ii. 452

   42-51                                                   ii. 452

   43, 44                                                  ii. 218, 452

   44                                                        ii. 452

   45-51                                                   ii. 219, 452

   xxv.
   i. 580

   1                                                          ii. 455, 456

   1-13                                                     ii. 453

   1, 14                                                    i. 270

   1-30                                                     i. 647

   2                                                          ii. 456

   3                                                          ii. 456

   4                                                          ii. 456

   6                                                          ii. 455

   7                                                          ii. 456

   14-30                                                   ii. 453, 459

   31-46   App. xix.

   34                                                        i. 270

   46                                                        ii. 380

   xxvi.     1
   ii. 380, 481

   1-5                                                       ii. 468

   3-6                                                       ii. 371

   6&c                                                     i. 563; ii. 311

   6-13                                                     ii. 349, 364

   8                                                          ii. 337

   13                                                        ii. 359

   14-16                                                   ii. 468

   17-19                                                   ii. 479, 490

   17-20                                                   ii. 481

   20                                                        ii. 490

   21                                                        ii. 504

   21-24                                                   ii. 490

   24                                                        ii. 506

   25                                                        ii. 490, 494

   26                                                        ii. 511

   26-29                                                   ii. 490

   29                                                        i. 270

   30                                                        ii. 513

   30, 36                                                  ii. 480

   30-56                                                   ii. 533

   32                                                        ii. 534

   33                                                        ii. 649

   36                                                        ii. 538

   39, 42                                                  ii. 539

   40                                                        ii. 540

   41                                                        i. 296

   43                                                        ii. 96

   45                                                        ii. 541

   49                                                        ii. 543

   50                                                        ii. 544

   57                                                        i. 93

   57,58                                                   ii. 546

   58                                                        ii. 550

   59                                                        ii. 565

   59-68                                                   ii. 546

   60, 61                                                  i. 451

   66                                                        ii. 557

   69                                                        ii. 551

   69, 70                                                  ii. 546

   71, 72                                                  ii. 546

   73-75                                                   ii. 546

   xxvii.    1, 2, 11-14                                           ii. 565

   3                                                          ii. 421

   3-10                                                     ii. 565, 573

   5                                                          ii. 111, 574

   7                                                          ii. 316, 576

   12                                                        ii. 557

   15-18                                                   ii. 565

   17                                                        ii. 573

   18                                                        ii. 569

   19                                                        ii. 565

   20-31                                                   ii. 565

   24, 25                                                  ii. 577

   31-43                                                   ii. 582

   39-43                                                   ii. 591

   40-42                                                   i. 451

   41                                                        i. 93

   42                                                        ii. 596

   44                                                        ii. 582

   45-56                                                   ii. 582

   48, 49                                                  ii. 608

   51                                                        ii. 604, 610

   52, 53                                                  ii. 612

   55                                                        i. 692; ii.
   602

   56                                                        i. 572; ii.
   346

   57-61                                                   ii. 582

   60                                                        ii. 617

   61                                                        i. 572

   62-66                                                   ii. 582, 623

   xxviii.    1
   i. 692; ii. 631

   1-10                                                     ii. 630

   9                                                          ii. 633

   11-15                                                   ii. 630

   16                                                        ii. 535, 630,
   633, 647

   17                                                        ii. 647

   17-20                                                   ii. 630

   18-20                                                   ii. 535

   19                                                        i. 643

   St. Mark.

   i.          2-8
   i. 255

   7-11                                                     i. 275

   10                                                        i. 284

   12                                                        i. 291

   13                                                        i. 291

   14                                                        i. 270, 394,
   422, 423, 451

   15                                                        i. 270, 422,
   423, 451

   16                                                        i. 473, 474

   16-20                                                   i. 394, 472

   20                                                        i. 472

   21-34                                                   i. 478

   22                                                        i. 478

   23                                                        i. 484

   25                                                        ii. 403

   27                                                        i. 485, 602

   29                                                        ii. 4

   35                                                        i. 490; ii.
   374

   25-45                                                   i. 489

   35-39                                                   i. 489

   38                                                        i. 490

   40                                                        ii. 50

   40-45                                                   ii. 328

   41                                                        ii. 50

   43                                                        ii. 49

   44                                                        i. 619

   45                                                        ii. 50

   ii.          1
   i. 364

   1-12                                                     i. 499

   6                                                          i. 500

   7                                                          i. 500

   9                                                          i. 500

   10                                                        i. 500

   13                                                        i. 514

   13-17                                                   i. 507

   15                                                        i. 366

   16                                                        i. 518

   18                                                        i. 663

   18-22                                                   i. 654

   23                                                        ii. 55

   23-iii. 6                                                ii. 51

   iii.         4
   ii. 60

   6                                                          ii. 384

   11                                                        i. 692

   12                                                        i. 619

   13-15                                                   i. 524

   13-19                                                   i. 507, 521

   18                                                        i. 251

   19-21                                                   i. 542

   20                                                        i. 366, 542

   21                                                        i. 542

   22                                                        i. 570, 574,
   575; ii. 197

   22-30                                                   i. 580

   23                                                        i. 573, 582

   23-30                                                   i. 573

   31                                                        i. 251, 366,
   543, 576

   iv.         1-34                                                     i.
   578

   10                                                        i. 594

   11                                                        i. 270, 375,
   580

   12                                                        i. 375

   26                                                        i. 270

   26-29                                                   i. 583, 586,
   588

   30                                                        i. 270

   32                                                        i. 593

   33                                                        i. 583

   34                                                        i. 583

   35-41                                                   i. 599

   36                                                        i. 599

   37                                                        i. 600

   38                                                        i. 602

   39                                                        i. 484; ii.
   403

   v.         1-16                                                     i.
   678

   1-20                                                     i. 606, 607

   3-5                                                       i. 609

   6                                                          i. 610

   13                                                        i. 612

   15                                                        i. 692

   21-43                                                   i. 616

   22                                                        i. 438, 457

   27                                                        i. 76

   31                                                        i. 617

   37                                                        ii. 538

   38                                                        i. 692

   41                                                        ii. 484

   43                                                        i. 619

   vi.         1-6
   i. 457

   1-13                                                     i. 635

   2                                                          i. 478, 639

   3                                                          i. 251, 252,
   364, 637, 638

   5                                                          i. 464

   7                                                          i. 641; ii.
   135

   7-11                                                     i. 641

   12                                                        i. 654

   13                                                        i. 464, 654

   14-29                                                   i. 654

   17                                                        i. 657

   18                                                        i. 657

   20                                                        i. 666

   30-44                                                   i. 654, 676

   31-33                                                   i. 678

   32                                                        i. 678

   33                                                        i. 678; ii.
   150

   34                                                        i. 679, 680

   35                                                        i. 681

   38                                                        i. 681

   39                                                        i. 677, 683;
   ii. 65

   40                                                        i. 683

   45                                                        i. 676; ii. 3

   45-56                                                   i. 686

   48                                                        i. 693

   49                                                        i. 689

   53                                                        ii. 5

   53-56                                                   ii. 6

   56                                                        i. 464; ii. 6

   vii.        1
   ii. 7

   1-4                                                       i. 357

   1-23                                                     ii. 3

   2-5                                                       i. 358

   3                                                          ii. 11

   9                                                          ii. 17

   13                                                        ii. 17

   14                                                        ii. 7, 22

   15                                                        ii. 7

   16                                                        ii. 22

   17-23                                                   ii. 7

   19                                                        ii. 23

   21                                                        ii. 23

   24                                                        i. 655; ii.
   38

   24-30                                                   ii. 37

   25                                                        ii. 38, 39

   31                                                        ii. 44

   31-37                                                   ii. 44, 46

   34                                                        i. 489

   36                                                        i. 619

   37                                                        i. 378, 631

   viii.       1-21
   ii. 63

   6                                                          i. 683; ii.
   65

   7                                                          ii. 65

   11                                                        ii. 67

   12                                                        ii. 69, 70

   22                                                        ii. 47

   22-26                                                   ii. 44, 47

   23                                                        ii. 45, 47

   24                                                        ii. 48

   26                                                        i. 619; ii.
   47, 48

   27                                                        ii. 47

   26-ix. 1                                                ii. 72

   ix.         2-8
   ii. 91

   3                                                          ii. 96

   9-29                                                     ii. 102

   13                                                        i. 340

   16                                                        ii. 106

   21                                                        i. 480

   25                                                        i. 602

   30                                                        ii. 92

   30-50                                                   ii. 110

   31                                                        ii. 115

   34                                                        ii. 115

   35                                                        ii. 410

   38                                                        ii. 115, 117,
   346

   42-50                                                   ii. 115

   43                                                        i. 273; ii.
   46

   44                                                        ii. 120

   45                                                        i. 273; ii.
   120

   46                                                        ii. 120

   47                                                        i. 270

   48                                                        ii. 120

   50                                                        ii. 119

   x.         1
   ii. 127, 327, 331

   2-12                                                     ii. 327, 331

   4                                                          i. 612

   10                                                        ii. 335

   13-16                                                   ii. 327, 336

   14                                                        i. 270

   15                                                        i. 270

   17-22                                                   ii. 338

   18                                                        ii. 484

   21                                                        ii. 341

   23                                                        i. 270

   23-31                                                   ii. 338

   24                                                        i. 270, 485;
   ii. 342

   25                                                        i. 270

   26                                                        i. 478

   29                                                        ii. 343

   30                                                        ii. 343

   31                                                        ii. 344

   32                                                        i. 485; ii.
   126, 345

   32-34                                                   ii. 338

   35                                                        ii. 346

   35-45                                                   ii. 338, 346

   41                                                        ii. 337, 347

   45                                                        ii. 348

   46-52                                                   ii. 349, 355

   47                                                        ii. 49

   48                                                        ii. 49

   49                                                        ii. 356

   xi.         1-11
   ii. 363

   3                                                          ii. 365

   10                                                        i. 270

   11                                                        i. 373

   15-26                                                   ii. 374

   18                                                        i. 478

   20                                                        ii. 375, 380

   25                                                        ii. 377

   26                                                        ii. 377

   27-33                                                   ii. 380, 383

   xii.        1-12
   ii. 415

   13-17                                                   ii. 380, 384

   14                                                        ii. 112

   17                                                        ii. 386

   18-27                                                   ii. 396

   28-34                                                   ii. 396

   34                                                        i. 270

   35-40                                                   ii. 396

   40                                                        ii. 411

   41                                                        i. 692

   41-44                                                   ii. 387

   xiii.
   i. 640; ii. 328, 431

   1                                                          ii. 432

   3                                                          ii. 432

   8                                                          ii. 446

   9                                                          ii. 448

   30                                                        i. 647

   35                                                        i. 490

   37                                                        ii. 380

   xiv.       1
   i. 93; ii. 280, 468

   2                                                          ii. 371, 468

   3                                                          ii. 311

   3-9                                                       ii. 349, 358,
   364

   4                                                          ii. 337

   5                                                          ii. 49

   8                                                          ii. 359

   10                                                        ii. 468

   11                                                        ii. 468

   12-16                                                   ii. 479, 490

   12-17                                                   ii. 481

   14                                                        i. 185; ii.
   483

   17                                                        ii. 490

   18                                                        ii. 504

   18-21                                                   ii. 490

   21                                                        ii. 506

   22                                                        ii. 511

   22-25                                                   ii. 490

   25                                                        i. 270

   26                                                        ii. 480, 513

   26-52                                                   ii. 533

   28                                                        ii. 534

   32                                                        ii. 480

   36                                                        ii. 539

   40                                                        ii. 96

   41                                                        ii. 360, 541

   43                                                        i. 93

   45                                                        ii. 543

   46                                                        ii. 544

   51                                                        ii. 545

   53                                                        ii. 546

   54                                                        ii. 546, 550

   55                                                        ii. 565

   55-65                                                   ii. 546

   64                                                        ii. 557

   66                                                        i. 118; ii.
   551

   66-68                                                   ii. 546

   69                                                        ii. 546

   70                                                        ii. 546

   70-72                                                   ii. 546

   xv.        1
   ii. 565

   1-5                                                       ii. 565

   6-10                                                     ii. 565

   11                                                        ii. 577

   11-20                                                   ii. 565

   20-32                                                   ii. 582

   21                                                        ii. 587

   22                                                        ii. 587

   23                                                        ii. 208

   25                                                        ii. 582, 587

   29                                                        ii. 597

   32                                                        ii. 582

   33-41                                                   ii. 582

   36                                                        ii. 608

   39                                                        ii. 609

   40                                                        i. 251, 692;
   ii. 327, 346, 602

   41                                                        ii. 327, 602

   42-47                                                   ii. 582

   43                                                        ii. 615

   47                                                        i. 692

   xvi.       1
   ii. 631

   1-11                                                     ii. 630

   4                                                          i. 692

   9                                                          ii. 633

   9-20                                                     ii. 622

   10                                                        ii. 624

   11                                                        ii. 638

   12                                                        ii. 630, 635

   13                                                        ii. 630

   15-18                                                   ii. 630

   18                                                        i. 464

   19                                                        i. 557; ii.
   630

   20                                                        ii. 630

   St. Luke.

   i.          2
   i. 54

   4                                                          i. 185

   5-25                                                     i. 133

   17                                                        i. 340

   20                                                        ii. 248

   26-80                                                   i. 144

   33                                                        i. 270

   63                                                        ii. 270

   65                                                        i. 250

   68                                                        i. 560

   80                                                        i. 260

   ii.          1-20
   i. 180

   2                                                          i. 182

   7                                                          i. 189, 251;
   ii. 354, 483

   12                                                        i. 189

   15                                                        i. 250

   19                                                        i. 193, 250

   21-38                                                   i. 191

   27                                                        ii. 289

   29-32                                                   i. 199

   32                                                        ii. 166

   36                                                        i. 16

   37                                                        ii. 289

   39, 40                                                  i. 217

   40                                                        i. 221, 226

   41-52                                                   i. 235

   43                                                        i. 246

   48                                                        i. 478

   49                                                        i. 644

   51                                                        i. 193, 250

   52                                                        i. 250

   iii.         1-18
   i. 255

   3                                                          i. 264

   15                                                        i. 309, 340

   17                                                        i. 273

   18                                                        i. 270

   19                                                        ii. 525

   21                                                        i. 282, 283

   21-23                                                   i. 275

   iv.         1
   ii. 126

   1-13                                                     i. 291

   14, 15                                                  i. 422

   15, 16                                                  i. 423

   15-32                                                   i. 451

   16                                                        i. 234, 430,
   431

   16-30                                                   i. 423

   16-31                                                   i. 635

   18, 19                                                  i. 452

   20                                                        i. 438

   22                                                        i. 431

   23                                                        i. 424, 582,
   583

   31, 32                                                  i. 423

   32                                                        i. 478

   33-41                                                   i. 478

   35                                                        ii. 403

   36                                                        i. 485

   42-44                                                   i. 489

   43                                                        i. 270, 490

   v.
   ii. 649

   1-11                                                     i. 394, 472;
   ii. 648

   2                                                          i. 473

   5                                                          i. 473

   12-16                                                   i. 489

   14                                                        i. 619

   16                                                        ii. 126, 374

   17                                                        i. 93

   17-26                                                   i. 499

   21                                                        i. 478, 497

   27-32                                                   i. 507

   30                                                        i. 497

   31                                                        i. 520

   32                                                        i. 507

   33                                                        i. 497

   33-39                                                   i. 654

   36                                                        i. 582, 583

   39                                                        i. 665

   44                                                        i. 94

   46                                                        i. 94

   vi.
   i. 526

   1-11                                                     ii. 51

   2                                                          i. 478

   4                                                          ii. 58

   6                                                          ii. 61

   7                                                          i. 478, 497

   11                                                        ii. 62

   12                                                        i. 524; ii.
   374

   12-19                                                   i. 507, 521

   13                                                        i. 524

   15                                                        i. 251, 522

   17-19                                                   i. 524

   20                                                        i. 270

   38                                                        i. 535

   39                                                        i. 583

   vii.        1
   i. 426

   1-10                                                     i. 542

   5                                                          i. 433, 457

   6                                                          i. 548

   8                                                          i. 547

   11-17                                                   i. 552

   12                                                        i. 353

   17                                                        i. 574

   18-35                                                   i. 654, 666

   21                                                        i. 669

   24                                                        ii. 126

   26                                                        ii. 424

   28                                                        i. 270, 274

   29, 30                                                  i. 670

   30                                                        i. 93, 94,
   277

   31-33                                                   i. 576

   36                                                        i. 562

   36-50                                                   i. 561

   39                                                        i. 566

   40                                                        i. 564

   43                                                        i. 567

   viii.       1
   i. 270

   1-3                                                       i. 570

   3                                                          i. 429

   4-18                                                     i. 578

   5                                                          i. 587

   10                                                        i. 270

   14                                                        i. 587

   17                                                        i. 649

   19                                                        i. 360, 576

   22-25                                                   i. 599

   26-39                                                   i. 606

   27                                                        i. 609

   28                                                        i. 610

   29                                                        ii. 126

   40-56                                                   i. 616

   44                                                        i. 76

   45                                                        i. 617

   47                                                        i. 628

   56                                                        i. 619

   ix.         1
   ii. 135

   1-5                                                       i. 641

   1-6                                                       i. 635

   1-56                                                     ii. 126

   2                                                          i. 270

   6                                                          i. 654

   7-9                                                       i. 654; ii.
   572

   9                                                          i. 675; ii.
   301

   10-17                                                   i. 676

   11                                                        i. 270, 680

   13                                                        i. 681

   14                                                        i. 683

   18                                                        ii. 78, 81

   18-27                                                   ii. 72

   28                                                        ii. 374

   28-36                                                   ii. 91

   31                                                        ii. 128

   34                                                        ii. 98

   37                                                        ii. 93

   37-43                                                   ii. 102

   43                                                        i. 478

   43-50                                                   ii. 110

   49                                                        ii. 117

   50                                                        ii. 118, 199

   51                                                        ii. 96, 127,
   131

   51-xviii. 14                                           ii. 126, 127

   52-56                                                   ii. 377

   53                                                        ii. 174

   54                                                        ii. 346

   54-56                                                   ii. 131

   57-62                                                   ii. 126

   59                                                        ii. 133

   62                                                        i. 270

   x.-xvi.
   i. 579

   x.         1-16                                                     ii.
   135

   2                                                          i. 640; ii.
   137

   6                                                          ii. 138

   7                                                          ii. 138

   8                                                          ii. 138

   9                                                          i. 270; ii.
   137

   11                                                        i. 270

   12-16                                                   ii. 136

   13                                                        ii. 4

   13-16                                                   ii. 138

   13-22                                                   i. 561

   15                                                        i. 542

   17                                                        i. 480; ii.
   139

   17-20                                                   i. 489

   17-24                                                   ii. 135

   18                                                        i. 296, 480,
   692

   22                                                        i. 500; ii.
   141

   23                                                        ii. 142

   24                                                        ii. 142

   25                                                        i. 93; ii.
   135, 144

   25-37                                                   ii. 233, 234

   31                                                        i. 560

   33                                                        ii. 238

   38                                                        ii. 145, 146,
   311, 313

   38-42                                                   ii. 135

   xi.-xiv.                                                  i. 579

   xi.         1
   ii. 196, 240

   5                                                          ii. 240, 284

   5-13                                                     ii. 233, 239

   8                                                          ii. 240, 288

   14                                                        i. 576; ii.
   48, 197

   14-26                                                   i. 573

   14-36                                                   i. 580; ii. 195

   14-xvii. 11                                            ii. 195

   17                                                        i. 295

   19                                                        i. 480

   20                                                        i. 270

   21                                                        ii. 198

   22                                                        ii. 198

   24                                                        i. 480

   27                                                        i. 594; ii.
   132, 201

   30                                                        ii. 200

   33-36                                                   ii. 202

   37-54                                                   ii. 204, 406

   38                                                        i. 358

   39                                                        i. 312, 588;
   ii. 211

   39-52                                                   ii. 204

   40                                                        ii. 211

   41                                                        i. 312; ii.
   211

   42                                                        i. 312; ii.
   212

   43                                                        i. 94; ii.
   212

   44                                                        ii. 212

   45                                                        i. 93; ii.
   205, 213

   46                                                        i. 101; ii.
   213

   52                                                        ii. 382

   53                                                        ii. 205, 213

   54                                                        ii. 205, 213

   xii.
   ii. 218

   1                                                          i. 640; ii.
   212

   1-xiii. 17                                               ii. 214

   1-12                                                     ii. 214

   2                                                          i. 640, 649;
   ii. 215

   2-9                                                       ii. 214

   4                                                          ii. 215

   6                                                          ii. 215

   7                                                          ii. 215

   8-10                                                     ii. 215

   10                                                        ii. 214, 215,
   216

   11                                                        ii. 214, 215

   12                                                        ii. 214, 215

   13-21                                                   ii. 243

   16-21                                                   ii. 216

   22-34                                                   ii. 216

   29                                                        ii. 217

   31                                                        i. 270

   32                                                        i. 270; ii.
   216

   33                                                        ii. 217

   34                                                        ii. 217

   35-38                                                   ii. 218

   35-48                                                   ii. 431, 452

   39                                                        ii. 219

   40                                                        ii. 219

   42-46                                                   ii. 219, 267

   47                                                        ii. 220

   48                                                        ii. 220, 609

   49                                                        ii. 220

   49-53                                                   ii. 220

   50                                                        ii. 220

   51-53                                                   ii. 220

   54                                                        ii. 220

   57                                                        ii. 220

   58                                                        ii. 221

   59                                                        ii. 221

   xiii.       1
   i. 262

   1-5                                                       ii. 221

   2                                                          ii. 260

   3                                                          ii. 260

   4                                                          ii. 222

   6-9                                                       ii. 223, 243,
   246, 375

   10-17                                                   ii. 223

   14                                                        i. 439; ii.
   337

   15                                                        ii. 224

   16                                                        ii. 224

   18                                                        i. 270, 593

   19                                                        i. 593

   20                                                        i. 270

   22                                                        ii. 127, 226

   23                                                        ii. 298

   23-30                                                   ii. 298

   24                                                        ii. 298

   25-27                                                   ii. 298

   27                                                        ii. 301

   28                                                        i. 270; ii.
   298

   29                                                        i. 270; ii.
   298

   30                                                        ii. 418

   31                                                        i. 393; ii.
   298, 302

   31-33                                                   i. 658

   31-35                                                   ii. 298, 301,
   304

   32                                                        i. 393; ii.
   301, 302

   33                                                        ii. 302

   34                                                        ii. 302

   35                                                        ii. 302

   xiv.       1-11                                                     ii.
   249, 298, 303

   3                                                          i. 93, 94;
   ii. 303

   4                                                          ii. 303

   5                                                          ii. 255

   7-11                                                     ii. 303

   10                                                        ii. 304

   11                                                        ii. 410

   12                                                        ii. 205, 249

   12-14                                                   ii. 304

   13                                                        ii. 249, 251

   14                                                        ii. 249

   15                                                        i. 270

   16                                                        ii. 250, 427

   16-24                                                   ii. 243, 248

   17                                                        ii. 427

   21                                                        ii. 303

   21-24                                                   ii. 428

   25                                                        ii. 304

   25-35                                                   ii. 298, 304

   26                                                        ii. 305

   28-30                                                   ii. 305

   29                                                        i. 692

   31-35                                                   ii. 305

   xv.
   ii. 253

   1                                                          ii. 264

   2                                                          ii. 264

   3-7                                                       ii. 123

   4                                                          ii. 254

   8                                                          ii. 254

   8-10                                                     i. 581

   13                                                        ii. 267

   21                                                        ii. 262

   23                                                        ii. 261

   32                                                        ii. 263

   xvi.
   ii. 264

   1                                                          ii. 264

   1-8                                                       ii. 266

   2                                                          ii. 267

   3                                                          ii. 267

   7                                                          ii. 272

   8                                                          ii. 266

   9                                                          ii. 266, 273

   10                                                        ii. 275

   10-13                                                   ii. 266

   11                                                        ii. 154

   13                                                        ii. 275

   14                                                        ii. 331

   14-31                                                   ii. 275

   15                                                        ii. 264

   16                                                        i. 270; ii.
   264, 277

   16-22                                                   ii. 278

   17                                                        i. 234; ii.
   264, 277, 332

   18                                                        ii. 264, 277,
   332

   20                                                        ii. 279

   23-26                                                   ii. 280

   26                                                        ii. 282

   27-31                                                   ii. 282

   28                                                        ii. 282

   30                                                        ii. 283

   xvii.
   ii. 283, 284

   1                                                          ii. 306

   1-4                                                       ii. 306

   1-7                                                       ii. 119

   1-10                                                     ii. 298, 306

   2                                                          ii. 306

   3                                                          ii. 306

   4                                                          ii. 306

   6                                                          ii. 306

   7-10                                                     ii. 306

   10                                                        i. 509

   11                                                        ii. 126, 284,
   327

   12-19                                                   ii. 327, 328

   14                                                        ii. 329

   16                                                        i. 395

   18                                                        i. 400

   20                                                        i. 270; ii.
   284, 331

   20-37                                                   ii. 328, 331

   21                                                        i. 270; ii.
   284

   22-37                                                   ii. 284

   35                                                        ii. 120

   xviii.
   i. 579

   1                                                          ii. 284

   1-14                                                     ii. 284

   4                                                          ii. 287

   7                                                          ii. 284, 288

   8                                                          ii. 284, 288

   9-14                                                     ii. 289

   12                                                        i. 312, 662

   14                                                        ii. 410

   15-17                                                   ii. 293, 327,
   336

   16                                                        i. 270

   17                                                        i. 270; ii.
   96

   18-23                                                   ii. 235, 338

   24                                                        i. 270

   24-30                                                   ii. 338

   25                                                        i. 270

   29                                                        i. 270; ii.
   343

   30                                                        ii. 343

   31                                                        ii. 127

   31-34                                                   ii. 338

   35-43                                                   ii. 349, 355

   38                                                        ii. 49

   39                                                        ii. 49

   xix.
   i. 580

   1-10                                                     ii. 349

   10                                                        ii. 122

   11-28                                                   ii. 453, 465

   12                                                        i. 270

   12-27                                                   i. 220

   15                                                        i. 270

   29-44                                                   ii. 363

   37                                                        ii. 367

   38                                                        ii. 367

   39                                                        ii. 365

   41                                                        i. 243; ii.
   324

   41-44                                                   ii. 70

   45                                                        i. 373

   45-48                                                   ii. 374

   xx.        1-8
   ii. 380, 383

   9                                                          ii. 423

   9-19                                                     ii. 415

   19-26                                                   ii. 384

   20-26                                                   ii. 380

   27-39                                                   ii. 396

   40-47                                                   ii. 396

   45-47                                                   ii. 204

   47                                                        ii. 411

   xxi.
   i. 640

   1-4                                                       ii. 380, 387

   5-38                                                     ii. 431

   6                                                          i. 692

   12                                                        ii. 448

   24                                                        ii. 433

   29-31                                                   i. 646

   31                                                        ii. 450

   32                                                        i. 647

   36-38                                                   ii. 380

   37                                                        ii. 415

   xxii.      1
   ii. 380

   1-6                                                       ii. 468

   2                                                          i. 93

   3                                                          i. 296; ii.
   471

   4                                                          ii. 475

   7                                                          ii. 481

   7-13                                                     ii. 479, 490

   8                                                          ii. 364, 482

   11                                                        i. 185; ii.
   483

   13                                                        ii. 481

   14                                                        ii. 481

   14-16                                                   ii. 496

   15                                                        ii. 481

   17                                                        ii. 490, 496

   18                                                        ii. 490, 496

   19                                                        ii. 490

   20                                                        ii. 490

   21-23                                                   ii. 490

   24-30                                                   ii. 490

   25                                                        ii. 495

   26                                                        ii. 495

   28                                                        i. 296

   29                                                        i. 270

   30                                                        ii. 343

   31                                                        i. 296; ii.
   535

   31-53                                                   ii. 533

   35, 38                                                  ii. 537

   37                                                        i. 342

   39                                                        ii. 480

   41                                                        ii. 539

   48                                                        ii. 543

   54                                                        ii. 550

   54-58                                                   ii. 546

   55                                                        ii. 550

   59-62                                                   ii. 546

   63-65                                                   ii. 546

   66                                                        i. 93, 97;
   ii. 549

   66-68                                                   ii. 560

   67-71                                                   ii. 546

   xxiii.     1-5
   ii. 565

   2                                                          ii. 384,
   557, 565, 570

   3                                                          ii. 570

   6                                                          i. 118

   6-12                                                     ii. 565, 572

   7                                                          i. 118; ii.
   383

   10                                                        i. 93

   13                                                        ii. 573

   13-17                                                   ii. 565

   18-25                                                   ii. 565

   26                                                        i. 63

   26-38                                                   ii. 582

   27-31                                                   ii. 588, 595

   34                                                        ii. 595

   35                                                        i. 692; ii.
   597

   36                                                        ii. 595

   37                                                        ii. 595

   39-43                                                   ii. 582

   44-49                                                   ii. 582

   45                                                        ii. 604

   46                                                        ii. 595

   48                                                        i. 692

   49                                                        ii. 608

   50-56                                                   ii. 582

   51                                                        ii. 615

   54                                                        ii. 616

   55                                                        i. 572

   56                                                        i. 572

   xxiv.     1-12                                                     ii.
   630

   10                                                        ii. 630

   13-35                                                   ii. 630

   17                                                        ii. 640

   19                                                        ii. 640

   21                                                        ii. 623

   33                                                        ii. 642

   36-43                                                   ii. 630

   37                                                        i. 692

   38-43                                                   ii. 627, 628

   39                                                        i. 692; ii.
   643

   44-48                                                   ii. 647

   44-53                                                   ii. 630

   47                                                        i. 270

   St. John.

   i.          9
   ii. 154

   10                                                        i. 47

   11-13                                                   i. 671

   13                                                        i. 384

   14                                                        ii. 99

   15-51                                                   i. 336

   19-24                                                   i. 308

   19-28                                                   i. 309

   20                                                        i. 340

   22-28                                                   i. 341

   24                                                        i. 322

   28                                                        i. 264, 278

   29                                                        i. 488

   32                                                        i. 284

   32-34                                                   i. 275

   33                                                        i. 279, 336;
   ii. 644

   34                                                        i. 285

   37                                                        i. 474

   40                                                        i. 345

   41                                                        i. 347

   42                                                        ii. 82

   43                                                        i. 345

   44                                                        ii. 4

   45-51                                                   ii. 646

   47                                                        i. 348

   48                                                        i. 414

   48, 49                                                  i. 414

   49                                                        i. 414

   50-51                                                   i. 426

   50                                                        i. 350

   51                                                        i. 349, 350,
   351

   ii.          1
   i. 345

   1-11                                                     i. 423

   1-12                                                     i. 351

   3                                                          i. 359

   6                                                          ii. 11

   12                                                        i. 394

   13                                                        ii. 54, 491

   13-17                                                   i. 357

   13-iii. 21                                              i. 655

   13-23                                                   ii. 378

   13-25                                                   i. 364

   13-iv. 54                                              i. 407

   14                                                        i. 244

   14, 15                                                  i. 374

   18, 19                                                  ii. 558

   18-23                                                   i. 357, 378

   19                                                        i. 80; ii.
   469

   20                                                        i. 375

   23                                                        i. 378, 692

   iii.         1-21
   i. 377

   3                                                          i. 270, 384;
   ii. 33

   3-5                                                       i. 269, 383

   4                                                          i. 386

   5                                                          i. 270, 382

   7                                                          i. 384

   8                                                          i. 383

   14                                                        ii. 469

   16                                                        i. 389

   16-21                                                   i. 382, 389,
   656

   20                                                        ii. 525

   22                                                        i. 390; ii.
   54

   22-iv. 3                                                i. 655

   24                                                        i. 657

   25                                                        i. 391, 655

   25-30                                                   i. 654

   26                                                        i. 661

   29                                                        i. 663, 664

   31                                                        i. 384

   31-36                                                   i. 382

   iv.
   i. 542; ii. 329

   1                                                          i. 390, 393

   1, 2                                                      i. 658

   1-4                                                       i. 390

   1-42                                                     i. 404

   2                                                          i. 390

   4                                                          i. 394

   8                                                          i. 409

   9                                                          i. 401

   11-15                                                   i. 413

   15                                                        i. 414

   19                                                        i. 414, 692

   20                                                        i. 77

   20-24                                                   ii. 187

   23, 37                                                  ii. 154

   29                                                        i. 414

   30                                                        i. 418

   31                                                        i. 418

   33                                                        i. 407

   35                                                        i. 594; ii.
   55, 137

   36                                                        i. 420

   39                                                        i. 418

   40                                                        i. 408, 418

   42                                                        i. 421

   43-54                                                   i. 422, 423

   44                                                        i. 455

   45                                                        i. 422

   46-53                                                   i. 547

   46-54                                                   i. 572

   49                                                        i. 425

   50                                                        i. 426, 429

   52                                                        i. 428

   53                                                        i. 426, 428,
   429

   v.
   i. 460, 461, 499, 677; ii. 54, 55, 129

   v.-vi. 3                                     i. 407

   1                                                          i. 423, 460

   1-3                                                       ii. 54

   7                                                          i. 463, 468

   8                                                          i. 500

   9                                                          ii. 53

   13, 14                                                  i. 468

   15, 16                                                  i. 309

   16                                                        ii. 53

   16, 17                                                  ii. 223

   17                                                        i. 465, 470

   18                                                        i. 500

   18                                                        ii. 153

   19                                                        i. 471; ii.
   526

   19-32                                                   i. 466

   24                                                        i. 469

   27                                                        i. 500

   30-38                                                   i. 466

   36                                                        i. 500

   37                                                        i. 465

   39                                                        i. 465

   40-43                                                   i. 465

   44                                                        i. 465

   45-47                                                   i. 465

   vi.
   ii. 129

   1                                                          i. 655, 657

   1-14                                                     i. 676

   2                                                          i. 692

   3                                                          i. 679

   4                                                          i. 677, 679;
   ii. 128

   6                                                          i. 414, 680

   9                                                          i. 681

   10                                                        i. 683; ii.
   65

   15                                                        i. 687

   15-21                                                   i. 686

   17                                                        ii. 3

   19                                                        i. 606, 692

   21                                                        i. 606, 693,
   694

   22                                                        i. 678, 690;
   ii. 26

   22-24                                                   ii. 4

   22-25                                                   ii. 6

   22-71                                                   ii. 25

   24                                                        ii. 26

   25                                                        ii. 26

   25-29                                                   ii. 28

   25-36                                                   ii. 26

   25-65                                                   ii. 26

   26                                                        ii. 27

   27                                                        ii. 35

   29                                                        i. 469

   30                                                        i. 469

   30-36                                                   ii. 29

   31                                                        ii. 593

   32                                                        ii. 154

   33                                                        ii. 30

   37                                                        ii. 35

   37-40                                                   ii. 31

   40                                                        i. 692; ii.
   26

   41                                                        ii. 31

   41-51                                                   ii. 32

   41-52                                                   ii. 26

   42                                                        ii. 35

   44                                                        ii. 35

   48                                                        ii. 34

   48-58                                                   i. 683

   49                                                        i. 366

   51                                                        ii. 26, 469

   52-58                                                   ii. 27

   53-58                                                   ii. 26, 34

   55                                                        ii. 35

   56                                                        ii. 35

   59                                                        i. 366; ii.
   4, 6, 7, 26

   60-66                                                   ii. 7, 77

   61-65                                                   ii. 27

   62                                                        i. 692; ii.
   35

   65                                                        ii. 35

   66                                                        i. 590; ii.
   36

   67                                                        ii. 77

   68                                                        ii. 36, 152,
   536

   69                                                        ii. 36, 81,
   152

   70                                                        i. 590

   71                                                        ii. 36

   vii.
   ii. 70, 129

   vii.-x.                                                    ii. 126

   1-5                                                       ii. 77

   1-16                                                     ii. 126

   2                                                          ii. 129

   3                                                          i. 306, 692

   4                                                          ii. 527

   5                                                          i. 306

   11                                                        ii. 131

   11-36                                                   ii. 148

   13                                                        ii. 527

   14                                                        ii. 131, 145

   15                                                        i. 309

   17                                                        ii. 162

   18                                                        ii. 526

   20                                                        i. 479

   26                                                        ii. 527

   27                                                        ii. 436

   28                                                        ii. 154

   29                                                        ii. 155

   35                                                        i. 7

   37-viii. 11                                             ii. 156

   37-viii. 59                                             ii. 164

   38                                                        ii. 593

   39                                                        ii. 644

   40-42                                                   i. 423

   50                                                        ii. 617

   50-52                                                   i. 263

   52                                                        ii. 174

   53                                                        ii. 164

   53-viii. 11                                             ii. 163

   viii.       3
   i. 309

   9                                                          ii. 525

   12                                                        ii. 164, 180

   12-19                                                   ii. 164

   12-59                                                   ii. 164

   13                                                        ii. 164, 169

   14                                                        ii. 169

   15                                                        ii. 169

   16                                                        ii. 154, 169

   20                                                        ii. 164, 165

   21                                                        ii. 164

   22                                                        ii. 170

   23, 24                                                  ii. 171

   25-28                                                   ii. 171

   28                                                        ii. 180

   29                                                        ii. 180

   30                                                        i. 460

   30-32                                                   ii. 172

   31                                                        i. 469

   33                                                        i. 271

   34                                                        ii. 173

   35                                                        ii. 173

   37-40                                                   ii. 173

   39                                                        i. 271

   41                                                        ii. 173

   42                                                        ii. 173

   43-47                                                   ii. 173

   46                                                        ii. 525

   48                                                        i. 395, 479;
   ii. 197

   49                                                        i. 479

   50                                                        ii. 175

   51                                                        i. 692; ii.
   175

   52                                                        i. 479; ii.
   88, 175

   53                                                        i. 271

   56                                                        i. 161, 193

   59                                                        ii. 164

   ix.
   ii. 177

   3                                                          i. 468

   4                                                          ii. 180

   5                                                          ii. 180

   6                                                          ii. 45

   7                                                          ii. 158

   8                                                          i. 692

   11                                                        ii. 180

   12                                                        ii. 181

   14                                                        ii. 177

   15                                                        ii. 182

   16                                                        ii. 8

   18                                                        i. 309

   22                                                        i. 309; ii.
   181

   24                                                        ii. 8

   32                                                        ii. 324

   35                                                        ii. 177

   39                                                        ii. 187

   41                                                        ii. 187

   x.
   i. 583; ii. 177, 217

   1-21                                                     ii. 188

   11                                                        ii. 194, 469

   12                                                        i. 692

   13-15                                                   ii. 229

   15                                                        ii. 469

   17                                                        ii. 192

   18                                                        ii. 192

   19                                                        ii. 195

   19-21                                                   ii. 126

   20                                                        i. 479; ii.
   197

   21                                                        i. 479

   22                                                        ii. 177, 226

   22-39                                                   ii. 195

   22-42                                                   ii. 126, 195,
   226

   23                                                        ii. 151

   24                                                        ii. 527

   26                                                        ii. 229

   27                                                        ii. 229

   28                                                        ii. 229

   35                                                        ii. 231

   37                                                        ii. 232

   39                                                        ii. 126

   39-43                                                   ii. 126

   xi.
   ii. 126, 145, 284; ii. 306

   1-45                                                     ii. 195

   1-54                                                     ii. 308

   2                                                          ii. 311

   4                                                          ii. 322, 325

   6                                                          i. 629

   8                                                          ii. 301, 345

   14                                                        ii. 527

   16                                                        ii. 345

   20                                                        ii. 315

   33, 38                                                  ii. 49

   35-44                                                   ii. 375

   41                                                        ii. 324

   45                                                        ii. 311

   46-54                                                   ii. 195

   47                                                        ii. 475

   47-50                                                   i. 205, 263

   48                                                        ii. 475

   49                                                        i. 264

   50                                                        ii. 546

   51                                                        ii. 526

   54                                                        ii. 126, 127,
   135, 527

   55                                                        i. 367

   55-57                                                   ii. 357

   55-xii. 1                                               ii. 349

   57                                                        ii. 475

   xii.
   ii. 378

   1                                                          ii. 357, 358

   2-11                                                     ii. 349

   5                                                          ii. 472

   6                                                          ii. 472

   10                                                        ii. 357

   11                                                        ii. 357

   12                                                        ii. 365

   12-19                                                   ii. 363

   16                                                        ii. 366

   17                                                        ii. 367

   18                                                        ii. 367

   19                                                        i. 692; ii.
   365

   20                                                        ii. 187

   20-50                                                   ii. 380, 388

   21                                                        i. 676; ii. 3

   23                                                        ii. 391

   24-26                                                   ii. 391

   25                                                        ii. 404

   27                                                        ii. 391, 392

   28                                                        ii. 391

   28-33                                                   ii. 392

   31                                                        i. 296; ii.
   140

   32                                                        ii. 33, 171

   34-36                                                   ii. 392

   36                                                        ii. 393

   37-43                                                   ii. 393

   42                                                        ii. 183

   44                                                        ii. 394

   45                                                        i. 692

   45-48                                                   ii. 394

   49                                                        ii. 394

   50                                                        ii. 394

   xiii.
   ii. 348, 497

   1                                                          ii. 479, 490

   2                                                          ii. 471,
   493, 497

   2-20                                                     ii. 490

   3                                                          ii. 498

   4                                                          i. 568

   6                                                          ii. 499

   11                                                        ii. 501

   12-16                                                   ii. 497

   12-17                                                   ii. 501

   17-19                                                   ii. 502

   20                                                        ii. 504

   21                                                        ii. 505

   21-26                                                   ii. 490

   22                                                        ii. 506

   23                                                        ii. 506

   24                                                        ii. 495, 506

   26                                                        ii. 494

   26-38                                                   ii. 490

   27                                                        i. 296; ii.
   471, 477

   28                                                        ii. 506

   30                                                        ii. 507

   31-35                                                   ii. 509

   32                                                        ii. 509

   33                                                        ii. 513

   36                                                        ii. 524

   36-38                                                   i. 350

   37                                                        ii. 649

   xiv.
   ii. 513, 528

   1                                                          ii. 528

   1-4                                                       ii. 513, 514

   5                                                          ii. 514, 524

   5-14                                                     ii. 513

   7-14                                                     ii. 515

   8                                                          i. 680

   9                                                          i. 680

   12-14                                                   ii. 521

   15-17                                                   ii. 516

   15-24                                                   ii. 513

   17                                                        i. 692

   19                                                        i. 692; ii.
   516

   20-22                                                   ii. 517

   22                                                        i. 522

   24                                                        ii. 517

   24-31                                                   ii. 513

   26                                                        i. 56

   27, 28                                                  ii. 518

   29                                                        ii. 519

   30                                                        i. 296; ii.
   519

   31                                                        ii. 519

   xv.
   i. 583; ii. 513, 528

   1                                                          ii. 154

   1-8                                                       ii. 519

   4                                                          ii. 526

   7                                                          ii. 521

   8                                                          ii. 521

   9-17                                                     ii. 519

   11                                                        ii. 522, 530

   12-14                                                   ii. 522

   16                                                        ii. 521

   16-18                                                   ii. 523

   18-27                                                   ii. 519

   19-21                                                   ii. 523

   22-24                                                   ii. 523

   xvi.
   ii. 513, 524, 528

   1-4                                                       ii. 524

   2                                                          ii. 183

   5                                                          ii. 524

   5-7                                                       ii. 526

   7                                                          ii. 525

   8-15                                                     ii. 526

   10                                                        i. 692

   11                                                        i. 296

   16                                                        i. 692; ii.
   526

   17                                                        i. 692

   19                                                        i. 692; ii.
   527

   23                                                        ii. 527

   25                                                        ii. 527

   29                                                        ii. 527

   30                                                        ii. 528

   31-32                                                   i. 350

   32                                                        ii. 528

   33                                                        ii. 528

   xvii.
   ii. 513, 528

   1-5                                                       ii. 528

   3                                                          ii. 154

   3-5                                                       ii. 529

   6-10                                                     ii. 529

   6-19                                                     ii. 528

   9-12                                                     ii. 530

   12                                                        ii. 531, 543

   12-17                                                   ii. 531

   13                                                        ii. 530

   15                                                        ii. 536

   20-26                                                   ii. 528

   24                                                        i. 692, 693

   24-26                                                   ii. 531

   xviii.     1
   ii. 480, 485, 513

   1-11                                                     ii. 533

   2                                                          ii. 485

   3                                                          ii. 542

   4-9                                                       ii. 543

   5                                                          ii. 543

   12                                                        i. 309; ii.
   542

   12-14                                                   ii. 546

   13                                                        i. 264; ii.
   548

   14                                                        ii. 546

   15                                                        ii. 550

   15-18                                                   ii. 546, 548,
   550

   15-23                                                   ii. 548

   17                                                        ii. 546

   18                                                        ii. 546

   19                                                        ii. 548

   19-23                                                   ii. 546, 548,
   549

   20                                                        ii. 527, 549

   24                                                        ii. 546, 548

   25                                                        ii. 546

   26-27                                                   ii. 546

   28                                                        ii. 482, 556

   28-38                                                   ii. 565

   29                                                        ii. 557, 565

   30                                                        ii. 557, 565

   31                                                        i. 309; ii.
   541, 557

   32                                                        ii. 569

   33                                                        i. 406

   33-37                                                   i. 266

   36                                                        i. 383; ii.
   299

   37                                                        ii. 571

   39                                                        ii. 565

   40                                                        ii. 565

   xix.       1
   ii. 579

   1-16                                                     ii. 565

   2-16                                                     ii. 601

   4                                                          ii. 579

   6                                                          ii. 582

   7                                                          ii. 541

   11                                                        i. 384

   14                                                        i. 408

   15                                                        ii. 582

   16                                                        ii. 582

   16-24                                                   ii. 582

   17-24                                                   ii. 601

   19                                                        ii. 591

   20                                                        ii. 585

   21                                                        ii. 591

   22                                                        ii. 591

   23                                                        i. 384, 622,
   624, 625

   25                                                        i. 251, 521;
   ii. 602

   25-27                                                   ii. 582, 602

   26                                                        i. 360, 361

   27                                                        i. 383

   28                                                        ii. 603, 607

   28-30                                                   ii. 582

   31                                                        ii. 612

   31-37                                                   ii. 582, 595

   35                                                        ii. 154

   38-42                                                   ii. 582

   39                                                        i. 381

   41                                                        ii. 617

   42                                                        ii. 617

   xx.        1
   ii. 630

   1-18                                                     ii. 630

   2                                                          ii. 635

   6                                                          i. 693

   9                                                          ii. 623

   11-17                                                   ii. 633

   12                                                        i. 693

   13                                                        ii. 635

   14                                                        i. 693

   16                                                        i. 93

   19-25                                                   ii. 630

   20                                                        ii. 643

   23                                                        ii. 85

   26-29                                                   ii. 630

   27                                                        ii. 614

   30                                                        i. 394, 466;
   ii. 647

   31                                                        i. 185, 394,
   467; ii. 647

   xxi.       1-24                                                     ii.
   630

   2                                                          i. 350; ii.
   535, 633

   3                                                          ii. 647

   9                                                          i. 683; ii.
   649

   10                                                        i. 683

   13                                                        i. 683; ii.
   627

   15-17                                                   ii. 536

   25                                                        i. 394; ii.
   139

     __________________________________________________________________

                                    Indexes
     __________________________________________________________________

Index of Scripture References

   Genesis

   [1]1   [2]1:1   [3]1:2   [4]1:2   [5]1:2   [6]1:4   [7]1:7   [8]1:26
   [9]1:27   [10]1:27   [11]1:31   [12]2:3   [13]2:3   [14]2:4   [15]2:4
   [16]2:4   [17]2:4   [18]2:4   [19]2:4   [20]2:4   [21]2:4   [22]2:4
   [23]2:4   [24]2:7   [25]2:7   [26]2:8   [27]2:10   [28]2:10
   [29]2:24   [30]3:3   [31]3:8   [32]3:8   [33]3:9   [34]3:10
   [35]3:13   [36]3:15   [37]3:15   [38]3:15   [39]3:15   [40]3:17
   [41]3:19   [42]3:19   [43]3:21   [44]3:22   [45]3:24   [46]4:3
   [47]4:6   [48]4:25   [49]4:25   [50]4:25   [51]5:3   [52]5:24
   [53]5:24   [54]5:24   [55]5:24   [56]5:24   [57]6:6   [58]6:9
   [59]7:16   [60]7:16   [61]7:19   [62]8:22   [63]9:4   [64]9:27
   [65]11   [66]12:2   [67]12:3   [68]12:5   [69]12:5   [70]13:3
   [71]14:1   [72]14:2   [73]14:5   [74]14:22   [75]15   [76]15
   [77]15:13   [78]15:17   [79]15:18   [80]16:13-14   [81]17
   [82]17:17-18   [83]17:22   [84]18:4   [85]18:4   [86]18:4-5
   [87]18:4-5   [88]18:4-5   [89]18:4-5   [90]18:4-5   [91]18:5
   [92]18:6   [93]18:7   [94]19:1   [95]19:32   [96]21:4   [97]22:1
   [98]22:3-4   [99]22:4   [100]22:6   [101]22:7   [102]22:7-8
   [103]22:17-18   [104]22:18   [105]23:15   [106]25:27   [107]26:5
   [108]26:5   [109]26:19   [110]27:19   [111]27:25   [112]28:9
   [113]28:11   [114]28:11   [115]28:15   [116]28:21   [117]28:21
   [118]31:19   [119]33:1   [120]33:18-19   [121]33:20   [122]35:2
   [123]35:4   [124]35:21   [125]36:3   [126]38:1   [127]38:2
   [128]38:18   [129]38:26   [130]38:26   [131]40:19   [132]43:14
   [133]44:8   [134]46:23   [135]46:27   [136]46:28   [137]48
   [138]48:16   [139]48:22   [140]48:22   [141]49:1   [142]49:10
   [143]49:10   [144]49:10   [145]49:10   [146]49:10   [147]49:10-11
   [148]49:11   [149]49:11   [150]49:11   [151]49:18   [152]49:19
   [153]49:19

   Exodus

   [154]1:21   [155]2:5   [156]2:5   [157]2:15   [158]2:15
   [159]2:20-21   [160]2:23   [161]2:25   [162]3:1   [163]3:1
   [164]3:2-3   [165]3:6   [166]3:12   [167]3:12   [168]3:14   [169]4:11
   [170]4:12   [171]4:15   [172]4:18   [173]4:18   [174]4:22   [175]4:22
   [176]4:22   [177]4:24   [178]4:24   [179]6   [180]6:3   [181]6:4
   [182]6:9   [183]6:12   [184]10:23   [185]12   [186]12:2   [187]12:2
   [188]12:2   [189]12:2   [190]12:2   [191]12:3   [192]12:6   [193]12:6
   [194]12:37   [195]12:42   [196]12:42   [197]12:44   [198]12:46
   [199]13:1-10   [200]13:1-10   [201]13:1-10   [202]13:9   [203]13:9
   [204]13:14   [205]13:16   [206]13:16   [207]13:19   [208]14:8
   [209]15   [210]15:1   [211]15:1   [212]15:2   [213]15:8   [214]15:11
   [215]15:11   [216]15:26   [217]16:33   [218]16:33   [219]17:7
   [220]17:16   [221]17:16   [222]17:16   [223]18:4   [224]18:6
   [225]18:7   [226]18:27   [227]18:27   [228]19   [229]19:3-6
   [230]19:4   [231]19:5   [232]19:10   [233]19:10   [234]19:14
   [235]19:14   [236]19:17   [237]19:18   [238]20:1   [239]20:2
   [240]20:4   [241]20:8   [242]20:8   [243]20:10   [244]20:12
   [245]20:21   [246]20:21   [247]20:23   [248]21   [249]21:1
   [250]21:2   [251]21:17   [252]21:28-29   [253]22:1   [254]22:3
   [255]22:24   [256]22:26   [257]23:5   [258]23:5   [259]23:7
   [260]23:20   [261]23:20   [262]23:20   [263]23:28   [264]24:1
   [265]24:1   [266]24:5   [267]24:10   [268]24:12   [269]25:3
   [270]26:15   [271]27:20   [272]30:6   [273]30:13   [274]31:2
   [275]31:13   [276]32:6   [277]32:16   [278]32:22   [279]32:32
   [280]33:21   [281]33:21   [282]33:22   [283]34:14   [284]34:27
   [285]35:1   [286]36   [287]36:6   [288]40:9   [289]40:10   [290]40:11

   Leviticus

   [291]1   [292]1:1   [293]1:1   [294]1:2   [295]2:13   [296]2:13
   [297]4:25   [298]4:30   [299]4:34   [300]5:1-10   [301]6:23
   [302]6:23   [303]8:35   [304]9:4   [305]9:6   [306]9:23   [307]11:22
   [308]11:33   [309]11:34   [310]11:38   [311]11:44   [312]12
   [313]12:4   [314]13:45   [315]14:5   [316]14:29   [317]15:11
   [318]16:16   [319]16:30   [320]18:5   [321]18:5   [322]18:30
   [323]18:30   [324]19   [325]19:18   [326]19:18   [327]19:18
   [328]19:19   [329]19:19   [330]19:23   [331]19:24   [332]19:24
   [333]19:26   [334]20:5   [335]20:23   [336]22:10   [337]22:32
   [338]23   [339]23:11   [340]23:15   [341]23:16   [342]23:40
   [343]23:40   [344]23:40   [345]25:23   [346]25:39   [347]25:47
   [348]26   [349]26:13   [350]26:44   [351]27:10

   Numbers

   [352]1   [353]1:16   [354]2:32   [355]2:32   [356]3:16   [357]3:39
   [358]3:39   [359]3:51   [360]3:51   [361]5:3   [362]5:19
   [363]6:23-26   [364]6:24   [365]6:24-26   [366]6:26   [367]6:27
   [368]6:27   [369]6:27   [370]7   [371]7:14   [372]7:14   [373]7:48
   [374]8   [375]9:3   [376]9:5   [377]9:12   [378]10:19   [379]10:35-36
   [380]10:36   [381]11:12   [382]11:16   [383]11:16   [384]11:20
   [385]12:1   [386]12:14   [387]14:9   [388]14:14   [389]14:27
   [390]14:30   [391]15:17   [392]15:31   [393]15:31   [394]15:37
   [395]15:37-41   [396]15:37-41   [397]15:38   [398]15:38-39
   [399]15:38-41   [400]15:38-41   [401]16:1-2   [402]16:2   [403]18:16
   [404]19:2   [405]21:6   [406]21:8-9   [407]23:9   [408]23:15
   [409]23:19   [410]23:19   [411]23:19   [412]23:19   [413]23:21
   [414]23:21   [415]24:7   [416]24:7   [417]24:7   [418]24:14
   [419]24:17   [420]24:17   [421]24:17   [422]24:17   [423]24:17
   [424]24:17   [425]24:17   [426]24:17   [427]24:21   [428]24:23
   [429]25:4   [430]27:16   [431]27:20   [432]28:5   [433]31:2
   [434]31:23   [435]31:23   [436]32:36   [437]32:41

   Deuteronomy

   [438]1   [439]1:1   [440]1:1   [441]1:1   [442]1:1   [443]1:1
   [444]1:5   [445]1:8   [446]1:10   [447]1:26   [448]1:26   [449]1:30
   [450]1:30   [451]1:31   [452]1:32   [453]1:32   [454]1:43   [455]3:9
   [456]3:25   [457]4:4-9   [458]4:5   [459]4:7-8   [460]4:11
   [461]4:40   [462]5:12-15   [463]6:4   [464]6:4   [465]6:4-9
   [466]6:4-9   [467]6:4-9   [468]6:4-9   [469]6:4-9   [470]6:4-10
   [471]6:5   [472]6:7   [473]6:8   [474]6:8   [475]6:9   [476]6:20
   [477]7:13   [478]8:3   [479]8:3   [480]8:3-4   [481]10   [482]10:17
   [483]11:9   [484]11:13   [485]11:21   [486]11:26   [487]13
   [488]13:17   [489]14:21   [490]14:22   [491]14:22   [492]15:7
   [493]16:1-3   [494]17:6   [495]17:11   [496]17:15   [497]18:15
   [498]18:15   [499]18:15   [500]18:15   [501]18:18   [502]18:18
   [503]18:18   [504]19:21   [505]19:34   [506]20:10   [507]21:3
   [508]21:6   [509]21:11   [510]21:18-21   [511]21:23   [512]22:6
   [513]22:6-7   [514]22:7   [515]22:9-11   [516]22:12   [517]22:12
   [518]23:3   [519]23:11   [520]23:25   [521]24:1   [522]24:1
   [523]24:19   [524]25:5   [525]25:5   [526]25:19   [527]26
   [528]26:15   [529]27:4   [530]28   [531]28:12   [532]28:15
   [533]28:69   [534]29:1   [535]29:27   [536]30   [537]30:4
   [538]30:12   [539]30:13   [540]31:16   [541]31:21   [542]31:27
   [543]32:1   [544]32:1   [545]32:2   [546]32:4   [547]32:8
   [548]32:12   [549]32:16   [550]32:34   [551]32:39   [552]32:40
   [553]32:49   [554]33:2   [555]33:3   [556]33:11   [557]33:17
   [558]33:17   [559]33:23   [560]33:27   [561]33:27   [562]33:27
   [563]34:1-3   [564]34:6   [565]34:8

   Joshua

   [566]1:8   [567]3:9   [568]3:17   [569]7:19   [570]7:21   [571]8:33
   [572]11:1-5   [573]13:27   [574]15   [575]15:1   [576]15:25
   [577]15:25   [578]15:32   [579]19:10-11   [580]22:21   [581]22:24
   [582]22:30

   Judges

   [583]5:2   [584]5:2   [585]5:9   [586]5:9   [587]5:9   [588]5:31
   [589]6:1   [590]6:12   [591]6:15   [592]6:19   [593]9:7-15
   [594]11:3-6   [595]12:5-6   [596]13:18   [597]15:20   [598]18:30
   [599]19:21

   Ruth

   [600]1:4   [601]1:10   [602]1:15   [603]1:17   [604]2:9   [605]2:14
   [606]2:14   [607]2:14   [608]2:14   [609]2:14   [610]3:13   [611]3:18
   [612]4:18   [613]4:18   [614]4:19   [615]5

   1 Samuel

   [616]1:24   [617]2:1-10   [618]2:2   [619]2:6   [620]2:9   [621]4:21
   [622]8:7   [623]9:22   [624]10:3   [625]13   [626]13:1   [627]14:3
   [628]15:22   [629]16:1   [630]16:14-15   [631]19:12   [632]22:9
   [633]23:3   [634]25:29   [635]25:41   [636]28:14

   2 Samuel

   [637]1   [638]3:25   [639]3:28   [640]5:23-24   [641]12:1-6
   [642]15:5   [643]15:6   [644]15:9   [645]18:14   [646]19:18
   [647]20:14   [648]21:1   [649]22:28

   1 Kings

   [650]1:9   [651]1:33   [652]1:38   [653]2:27   [654]4:33   [655]7:23
   [656]7:26   [657]8:66   [658]13:32   [659]16   [660]18:4   [661]18:37
   [662]18:37   [663]22:23

   2 Kings

   [664]1:2   [665]1:3   [666]6:16-17   [667]9:35   [668]12:4
   [669]15:29   [670]17:6   [671]17:24   [672]17:24   [673]17:24-26
   [674]17:30   [675]17:30-31   [676]17:31   [677]20:20   [678]23:6
   [679]25:5   [680]27:24

   1 Chronicles

   [681]3:17   [682]3:24   [683]6:44   [684]8:37   [685]17:21   [686]24:10

   2 Chronicles

   [687]7:16   [688]13:19   [689]24:6   [690]24:20-22   [691]26:2
   [692]28:15   [693]29:25-30   [694]30:1   [695]30:1-26   [696]32:30
   [697]33:12-13   [698]34:6   [699]34:9   [700]35:1-2   [701]35:6
   [702]35:18   [703]36:22

   Ezra

   [704]1:3-4   [705]2:34   [706]4:2   [707]4:3   [708]4:7   [709]4:10
   [710]5:1   [711]5:3   [712]6:16-17   [713]7   [714]7:6   [715]7:10
   [716]9:1   [717]10:14

   Nehemiah

   [718]2:8   [719]2:14   [720]3:1   [721]3:3   [722]3:15   [723]3:20
   [724]3:32   [725]4:16   [726]5:7   [727]7   [728]8:7-8   [729]9:2
   [730]10:4   [731]10:32   [732]10:32   [733]11:29   [734]12:10-11
   [735]12:22   [736]12:22   [737]12:27   [738]13   [739]13:4

   Esther

   [740]1:9   [741]2:1   [742]2:3   [743]2:7-8   [744]7:9   [745]8:2
   [746]9:12

   Job

   [747]1:1   [748]1:15   [749]1:21   [750]9:7   [751]14:20   [752]16:9
   [753]21   [754]21:9   [755]26:7   [756]28:21   [757]33:28

   Psalms

   [758]1   [759]1   [760]1   [761]1   [762]1   [763]2   [764]2   [765]2
   [766]2   [767]2   [768]2   [769]2:2   [770]2:2   [771]2:3   [772]2:4
   [773]2:4   [774]2:4   [775]2:6   [776]2:7   [777]2:7   [778]2:7
   [779]2:7   [780]2:7   [781]2:7   [782]2:7   [783]2:7   [784]2:7
   [785]2:7   [786]2:9   [787]2:9   [788]3:4   [789]3:16   [790]4:8
   [791]5:5   [792]6:1   [793]8:4-8   [794]8:5-6   [795]9:6   [796]10:8
   [797]11   [798]11   [799]11   [800]11:12   [801]12   [802]12
   [803]13   [804]13   [805]13   [806]13:6   [807]14   [808]14:2
   [809]14:7   [810]15   [811]15:31   [812]16:5   [813]16:9   [814]16:10
   [815]17   [816]17:14   [817]18   [818]18:36   [819]18:36   [820]18:50
   [821]19   [822]21   [823]21   [824]21   [825]21:1   [826]21:1
   [827]21:1   [828]21:3   [829]21:4   [830]21:4   [831]21:7   [832]22
   [833]22   [834]22   [835]22   [836]22:1   [837]22:1   [838]22:1
   [839]22:2   [840]22:7   [841]22:7   [842]22:8   [843]22:17
   [844]22:18   [845]23   [846]23:5   [847]23:5   [848]23:5   [849]24:1
   [850]25   [851]26:2   [852]26:6   [853]27:4   [854]29:3-9   [855]30:4
   [856]30:5   [857]31   [858]31:1   [859]31:5   [860]31:19   [861]31:20
   [862]32   [863]34:20   [864]35:16   [865]35:19   [866]36:5-7
   [867]36:9   [868]37:25   [869]40:6-8   [870]40:8   [871]41
   [872]41:5   [873]41:9   [874]42   [875]42:2   [876]44:23   [877]45
   [878]45:1   [879]45:2   [880]45:7   [881]45:7   [882]46:8
   [883]47:13   [884]49   [885]49   [886]49:12   [887]50:23   [888]54
   [889]54   [890]56   [891]58:4   [892]62:11   [893]68:4   [894]68:12
   [895]68:18   [896]68:27   [897]68:32   [898]69:9   [899]69:20
   [900]69:21   [901]69:21   [902]72   [903]72   [904]72   [905]72:1
   [906]72:5   [907]72:5   [908]72:5   [909]72:7   [910]72:8
   [911]72:10   [912]72:16   [913]72:16   [914]72:16   [915]72:17
   [916]72:17   [917]72:17   [918]74   [919]75   [920]76:9   [921]80:5
   [922]81   [923]81:2   [924]82   [925]82:6   [926]82:6   [927]85:4
   [928]88:12   [929]89:22-25   [930]89:23-24   [931]89:32   [932]89:51
   [933]89:52   [934]90:1   [935]90:4   [936]90:15   [937]91:13
   [938]92   [939]92:1   [940]92:3   [941]92:11   [942]93   [943]93:1
   [944]93:1   [945]93:1   [946]93:1   [947]95:7   [948]95:10
   [949]98:1   [950]100:1   [951]102:18   [952]103:17   [953]104:1
   [954]104:1   [955]104:4   [956]105:8   [957]106:9   [958]106:9
   [959]107:1   [960]107:2   [961]110   [962]110   [963]110   [964]110:1
   [965]110:1   [966]110:2   [967]110:2   [968]110:3   [969]112:6
   [970]112:10   [971]113   [972]113   [973]113   [974]113   [975]113
   [976]113   [977]113   [978]114:16   [979]115   [980]115   [981]115:17
   [982]115:17   [983]116:13   [984]116:13   [985]116:13   [986]118
   [987]118   [988]118   [989]118   [990]118   [991]118   [992]118
   [993]118   [994]118:22-23   [995]118:25   [996]118:25
   [997]118:25-26   [998]119:164   [999]119:165   [1000]120   [1001]120
   [1002]121:1   [1003]121:6   [1004]121:8   [1005]122   [1006]122:1-5
   [1007]132:17   [1008]132:17   [1009]132:18   [1010]133:2   [1011]136
   [1012]136   [1013]136:24-25   [1014]137:7-8   [1015]139:16-17
   [1016]139:21   [1017]146   [1018]146:7   [1019]146:8   [1020]147:1
   [1021]147:2   [1022]150

   Proverbs

   [1023]2:4   [1024]3:19-20   [1025]6   [1026]7:26   [1027]8:2
   [1028]8:9   [1029]8:15   [1030]8:36   [1031]9:5   [1032]10:7
   [1033]10:22   [1034]11:31   [1035]13:12   [1036]16:11   [1037]17:5
   [1038]19:21   [1039]19:21   [1040]19:21   [1041]19:21   [1042]19:23
   [1043]19:29   [1044]21:14   [1045]22:28   [1046]23:15   [1047]23:23
   [1048]23:25   [1049]25:1   [1050]25:13   [1051]26:4-5   [1052]30:1
   [1053]30:17

   Ecclesiastes

   [1054]1:7   [1055]1:7   [1056]1:8   [1057]1:9   [1058]1:9   [1059]1:9
   [1060]1:9   [1061]1:9   [1062]1:15   [1063]1:15   [1064]1:16
   [1065]1:18   [1066]2:2   [1067]2:5   [1068]2:5   [1069]2:7
   [1070]2:8   [1071]2:18   [1072]2:24   [1073]3:5   [1074]3:16
   [1075]3:24   [1076]3:39   [1077]4:2   [1078]4:3   [1079]4:13-14
   [1080]5:11   [1081]5:11   [1082]5:12   [1083]6:25   [1084]7:5
   [1085]7:12   [1086]7:13   [1087]7:18   [1088]7:19   [1089]8:1
   [1090]9:2   [1091]9:7   [1092]9:8   [1093]9:8   [1094]9:14-15
   [1095]9:15   [1096]9:18   [1097]10:2   [1098]10:7   [1099]10:8
   [1100]10:8   [1101]12:3   [1102]12:3   [1103]12:10   [1104]12:12-13

   Song of Solomon

   [1105]1   [1106]1   [1107]1:1   [1108]1:1   [1109]1:1   [1110]1:1
   [1111]1:3   [1112]1:4   [1113]1:4   [1114]1:7   [1115]1:7
   [1116]1:10   [1117]1:14   [1118]1:14   [1119]1:15   [1120]1:15
   [1121]1:15   [1122]1:16   [1123]2:9   [1124]2:9   [1125]2:9
   [1126]2:9   [1127]2:10   [1128]2:11-13   [1129]2:12   [1130]2:12
   [1131]2:13   [1132]2:13   [1133]2:13   [1134]2:13   [1135]2:13
   [1136]2:13   [1137]2:13   [1138]2:13   [1139]2:14   [1140]2:15
   [1141]3:8   [1142]4   [1143]4:6   [1144]4:6   [1145]4:8   [1146]4:12
   [1147]4:13   [1148]4:14   [1149]5:2   [1150]5:2   [1151]5:2
   [1152]5:5   [1153]5:10   [1154]5:10   [1155]5:10   [1156]5:11
   [1157]6   [1158]7:5   [1159]7:9   [1160]7:12   [1161]8:2   [1162]8:2

   Isaiah

   [1163]1   [1164]1   [1165]1:11-13   [1166]1:18   [1167]1:21
   [1168]1:26   [1169]1:27   [1170]2:1-2   [1171]2:3   [1172]2:4
   [1173]2:17   [1174]2:17   [1175]3:16-24   [1176]4   [1177]4
   [1178]4:3   [1179]4:3   [1180]4:4   [1181]4:4   [1182]4:5   [1183]4:5
   [1184]4:5-6   [1185]4:6   [1186]5   [1187]5:1-6   [1188]5:7
   [1189]5:7   [1190]6   [1191]6   [1192]6   [1193]6   [1194]6:1
   [1195]6:2   [1196]6:3   [1197]6:6   [1198]6:9-10   [1199]6:9-10
   [1200]7:14   [1201]7:14   [1202]7:14   [1203]7:21   [1204]8:1
   [1205]8:1   [1206]8:4   [1207]8:14   [1208]8:16   [1209]8:20
   [1210]9   [1211]9   [1212]9   [1213]9   [1214]9:1   [1215]9:1
   [1216]9:2   [1217]9:6   [1218]9:6   [1219]9:6   [1220]9:6   [1221]9:6
   [1222]9:7   [1223]10:13   [1224]11   [1225]11   [1226]11   [1227]11:1
   [1228]11:1   [1229]11:1   [1230]11:1   [1231]11:3   [1232]11:4
   [1233]11:4   [1234]11:4   [1235]11:4   [1236]11:7   [1237]11:8
   [1238]11:10   [1239]11:10   [1240]11:10   [1241]11:10   [1242]11:12
   [1243]11:12   [1244]11:12   [1245]11:12   [1246]11:12   [1247]11:12
   [1248]11:12   [1249]11:12   [1250]12   [1251]13:10   [1252]14:2
   [1253]14:19   [1254]14:29   [1255]18:5   [1256]18:7   [1257]19:18
   [1258]21:11   [1259]21:12   [1260]22   [1261]22:14   [1262]23:15
   [1263]24:21   [1264]25   [1265]25:6   [1266]25:6-7   [1267]25:8
   [1268]25:8   [1269]25:8   [1270]25:9   [1271]25:9   [1272]26
   [1273]26:19   [1274]27:13   [1275]28:9   [1276]30:15   [1277]30:15
   [1278]30:18   [1279]30:18   [1280]30:20   [1281]30:26   [1282]30:26
   [1283]30:29   [1284]32:14-15   [1285]32:14-15   [1286]33:17
   [1287]34:4   [1288]34:14   [1289]35:1   [1290]35:5-6   [1291]35:5-6
   [1292]35:8   [1293]35:10   [1294]36:8   [1295]38:2   [1296]40
   [1297]40   [1298]40:1-2   [1299]40:3   [1300]40:3   [1301]40:3
   [1302]40:3   [1303]40:3   [1304]40:3-5   [1305]40:4-5   [1306]40:9
   [1307]42:1   [1308]42:1   [1309]42:1   [1310]42:3   [1311]42:5
   [1312]43:6   [1313]44:3   [1314]44:6   [1315]44:6   [1316]46
   [1317]48:22   [1318]49:6   [1319]49:7   [1320]49:12   [1321]49:20
   [1322]49:23   [1323]51   [1324]51   [1325]51:3   [1326]51:10
   [1327]52:3   [1328]52:7   [1329]52:7   [1330]52:7   [1331]52:7
   [1332]52:7   [1333]52:7   [1334]52:9   [1335]52:13   [1336]52:13
   [1337]52:13   [1338]52:13   [1339]52:15   [1340]53   [1341]53
   [1342]53   [1343]53   [1344]53   [1345]53   [1346]53   [1347]53
   [1348]53   [1349]53   [1350]53:4   [1351]53:4   [1352]53:4
   [1353]53:4   [1354]53:5   [1355]53:9   [1356]53:10   [1357]54:9
   [1358]54:11   [1359]54:13   [1360]54:13   [1361]55   [1362]55:8
   [1363]56:1   [1364]56:7   [1365]57:2   [1366]57:2   [1367]57:2
   [1368]57:14   [1369]57:14   [1370]57:15   [1371]57:19   [1372]57:19
   [1373]57:21   [1374]58:6   [1375]58:6   [1376]58:6   [1377]58:6
   [1378]58:6   [1379]58:6   [1380]58:8   [1381]58:14   [1382]59:5
   [1383]59:15   [1384]59:16   [1385]59:16   [1386]59:17   [1387]59:17
   [1388]59:17   [1389]59:19-20   [1390]60   [1391]60   [1392]60
   [1393]60   [1394]60   [1395]60   [1396]60   [1397]60   [1398]60
   [1399]60   [1400]60   [1401]60   [1402]60   [1403]60   [1404]60:1
   [1405]60:1   [1406]60:1   [1407]60:1   [1408]60:1   [1409]60:1
   [1410]60:1   [1411]60:2   [1412]60:2   [1413]60:3   [1414]60:3
   [1415]60:3   [1416]60:4   [1417]60:5   [1418]60:6   [1419]60:19
   [1420]60:21   [1421]60:22   [1422]60:22   [1423]61:1   [1424]61:1
   [1425]61:1   [1426]61:1   [1427]61:1   [1428]61:1-2   [1429]61:1-2
   [1430]61:1-2   [1431]61:2   [1432]61:2   [1433]61:2   [1434]61:10
   [1435]61:10   [1436]61:10   [1437]61:10   [1438]61:10   [1439]62:5
   [1440]62:5   [1441]62:8   [1442]62:11   [1443]63   [1444]63:2
   [1445]63:2   [1446]63:4   [1447]63:4   [1448]64:4   [1449]64:4
   [1450]64:4   [1451]65:19   [1452]65:20   [1453]65:22   [1454]65:25
   [1455]66:7   [1456]66:15   [1457]66:15   [1458]68:22

   Jeremiah

   [1459]2:13   [1460]3   [1461]3:12   [1462]3:14   [1463]3:22   [1464]4
   [1465]5:12   [1466]5:19   [1467]5:19   [1468]7:2   [1469]7:22-23
   [1470]8:8   [1471]9:12-13   [1472]11:1   [1473]12:5   [1474]12:5
   [1475]13:17   [1476]13:22   [1477]14:5   [1478]15:9   [1479]16:13
   [1480]16:13   [1481]17   [1482]19   [1483]23:5   [1484]23:5
   [1485]23:29   [1486]25:30   [1487]30:6   [1488]30:9   [1489]30:9
   [1490]30:11   [1491]30:21   [1492]31:8   [1493]31:9   [1494]31:13
   [1495]31:13   [1496]31:13   [1497]31:15   [1498]31:31   [1499]31:31
   [1500]31:31   [1501]31:34   [1502]31:34   [1503]33:13   [1504]33:18
   [1505]36:23   [1506]40:7

   Lamentations

   [1507]1:2   [1508]1:5   [1509]1:5   [1510]1:13   [1511]1:16
   [1512]1:16   [1513]1:16   [1514]1:16   [1515]1:16   [1516]1:16
   [1517]1:16   [1518]1:16   [1519]1:16   [1520]1:16   [1521]1:16
   [1522]2   [1523]2:1   [1524]2:2   [1525]2:2   [1526]2:2   [1527]2:2
   [1528]2:2   [1529]2:17   [1530]2:20   [1531]2:22   [1532]3:23
   [1533]3:28   [1534]3:28   [1535]3:28   [1536]3:49   [1537]3:49
   [1538]3:50   [1539]4   [1540]4:2   [1541]4:4   [1542]4:20   [1543]5:21

   Ezekiel

   [1544]1:1   [1545]1:7   [1546]1:14   [1547]1:14   [1548]1:18
   [1549]4:14   [1550]5:2   [1551]8:16   [1552]9:4   [1553]10:2
   [1554]10:7   [1555]11   [1556]14:18   [1557]14:31   [1558]15:5
   [1559]16:3   [1560]16:6   [1561]16:7   [1562]16:9   [1563]16:10
   [1564]16:55   [1565]17:23   [1566]18:20   [1567]22:24   [1568]22:24
   [1569]27:5   [1570]28:17   [1571]29:21   [1572]29:21   [1573]31:6
   [1574]31:12   [1575]32:14   [1576]32:19   [1577]34   [1578]34:24
   [1579]36:25   [1580]37   [1581]37:3   [1582]37:25   [1583]43:7
   [1584]44:19   [1585]45:11   [1586]46:21   [1587]47:9   [1588]48:19

   Daniel

   [1589]1:5   [1590]2   [1591]2:2   [1592]2:21   [1593]2:22
   [1594]2:29   [1595]2:42   [1596]3:2   [1597]4:12   [1598]4:14
   [1599]4:21   [1600]4:22   [1601]4:33   [1602]6   [1603]7:9
   [1604]7:9   [1605]7:9-10   [1606]7:13   [1607]7:13   [1608]7:13
   [1609]7:13   [1610]7:13   [1611]7:13   [1612]7:14   [1613]7:23
   [1614]7:25   [1615]7:27   [1616]9   [1617]9:21   [1618]9:24-27
   [1619]10:13   [1620]10:13   [1621]10:20   [1622]12:1   [1623]12:2
   [1624]12:2   [1625]12:4   [1626]12:7   [1627]12:11   [1628]12:11
   [1629]12:11-12   [1630]12:12   [1631]12:13

   Hosea

   [1632]2   [1633]2   [1634]2   [1635]2:20   [1636]3:4   [1637]3:5
   [1638]4:11   [1639]6   [1640]6:2   [1641]6:2   [1642]6:3   [1643]6:6
   [1644]7:10   [1645]9:14   [1646]10:8   [1647]11:1   [1648]11:11
   [1649]12:10   [1650]12:12   [1651]14:7

   Joel

   [1652]1:7   [1653]2   [1654]2:10   [1655]2:31   [1656]3:18

   Amos

   [1657]3:5   [1658]4   [1659]4:6   [1660]4:7   [1661]5:3   [1662]5:18
   [1663]5:19   [1664]5:20   [1665]5:21-22   [1666]6:6   [1667]8:9
   [1668]9   [1669]9   [1670]9:9   [1671]9:11   [1672]9:11   [1673]9:11
   [1674]9:14   [1675]13:16

   Micah

   [1676]2   [1677]2:6   [1678]2:13   [1679]4   [1680]4:2   [1681]4:7
   [1682]5:2   [1683]5:2   [1684]5:2   [1685]5:2   [1686]5:2   [1687]5:3
   [1688]7:19

   Nahum

   [1689]1:3   [1690]1:3   [1691]1:4   [1692]1:4-7   [1693]1:6   [1694]2

   Habakkuk

   [1695]2   [1696]2:3   [1697]2:3   [1698]2:9   [1699]2:19   [1700]3:2
   [1701]3:3   [1702]3:8

   Zephaniah

   [1703]1:12   [1704]3:8   [1705]3:9   [1706]3:11-12

   Haggai

   [1707]1:8   [1708]2   [1709]2:6

   Zechariah

   [1710]1:1   [1711]1:7   [1712]2   [1713]2:4   [1714]2:10   [1715]3:8
   [1716]3:8   [1717]4   [1718]4:7   [1719]4:7   [1720]5:8   [1721]6
   [1722]8:10   [1723]8:12   [1724]8:23   [1725]8:23   [1726]9
   [1727]9:9   [1728]9:9   [1729]9:9   [1730]9:9   [1731]9:9   [1732]9:9
   [1733]9:9   [1734]9:9   [1735]9:9   [1736]10:3-4   [1737]10:6
   [1738]11   [1739]11   [1740]11:1   [1741]11:9   [1742]11:12
   [1743]11:12   [1744]12:10   [1745]12:10   [1746]12:10   [1747]12:12
   [1748]13:4   [1749]13:7   [1750]13:9   [1751]14:2   [1752]14:2
   [1753]14:7   [1754]14:8   [1755]14:8   [1756]14:9   [1757]14:12

   Malachi

   [1758]1:8   [1759]2:12   [1760]2:13-16   [1761]2:13-16   [1762]2:16
   [1763]3:1   [1764]3:1   [1765]3:1-3   [1766]3:2   [1767]3:7
   [1768]3:16   [1769]3:16   [1770]3:23   [1771]3:23-24   [1772]4
   [1773]4:1   [1774]4:5   [1775]4:5   [1776]4:5-6   [1777]4:6

   Matthew

   [1778]1   [1779]1:19   [1780]1:21   [1781]1:24   [1782]1:25
   [1783]1:25   [1784]1:25   [1785]2   [1786]2:1-8   [1787]2:4
   [1788]2:6   [1789]2:7   [1790]2:15   [1791]2:19-23   [1792]2:22
   [1793]2:22   [1794]3:1-12   [1795]3:2   [1796]3:2   [1797]3:4
   [1798]3:7   [1799]3:7   [1800]3:7   [1801]3:12   [1802]3:13-17
   [1803]3:14   [1804]3:14   [1805]3:17   [1806]4   [1807]4
   [1808]4:1-11   [1809]4:4   [1810]4:12   [1811]4:12   [1812]4:13
   [1813]4:13   [1814]4:13-16   [1815]4:13-17   [1816]4:13-17
   [1817]4:13-17   [1818]4:17   [1819]4:18   [1820]4:18   [1821]4:18-22
   [1822]4:18-22   [1823]4:18-22   [1824]4:20   [1825]4:22   [1826]4:22
   [1827]4:23   [1828]5   [1829]5   [1830]5:1   [1831]5:1-2
   [1832]5:3-12   [1833]5:6   [1834]5:13   [1835]5:13-16   [1836]5:15
   [1837]5:15   [1838]5:16   [1839]5:17   [1840]5:17   [1841]5:17
   [1842]5:18   [1843]5:18   [1844]5:19-20   [1845]5:20   [1846]5:21
   [1847]5:22   [1848]5:25   [1849]5:25-26   [1850]5:29   [1851]5:31
   [1852]5:42-48   [1853]5:46   [1854]5:47   [1855]6   [1856]6
   [1857]6:2   [1858]6:6   [1859]6:9-13   [1860]6:13   [1861]6:19-21
   [1862]6:25-33   [1863]6:33   [1864]7:10   [1865]7:12   [1866]7:12
   [1867]7:13-14   [1868]7:21-22   [1869]7:21-23   [1870]7:21-23
   [1871]7:22-23   [1872]7:23   [1873]7:25   [1874]7:28   [1875]7:28
   [1876]7:29   [1877]8   [1878]8:1   [1879]8:2-4   [1880]8:4
   [1881]8:5   [1882]8:5   [1883]8:5   [1884]8:5   [1885]8:6   [1886]8:7
   [1887]8:11   [1888]8:11-12   [1889]8:12   [1890]8:12   [1891]8:14
   [1892]8:14-17   [1893]8:17   [1894]8:17   [1895]8:17   [1896]8:18
   [1897]8:18   [1898]8:19-22   [1899]8:19-22   [1900]8:23   [1901]8:28
   [1902]8:28   [1903]8:28-34   [1904]9   [1905]9   [1906]9:1
   [1907]9:1   [1908]9:1-8   [1909]9:2   [1910]9:9-13   [1911]9:10-11
   [1912]9:11   [1913]9:13   [1914]9:14   [1915]9:14-17   [1916]9:14-17
   [1917]9:14-17   [1918]9:15   [1919]9:15   [1920]9:16   [1921]9:16-17
   [1922]9:18-26   [1923]9:20   [1924]9:20   [1925]9:27-31
   [1926]9:27-31   [1927]9:30   [1928]9:32-35   [1929]9:32-35
   [1930]9:32-35   [1931]9:33-34   [1932]9:34   [1933]9:34   [1934]9:34
   [1935]9:35   [1936]9:36   [1937]9:36-38   [1938]9:36-38
   [1939]9:36-38   [1940]9:38   [1941]10   [1942]10   [1943]10:1-15
   [1944]10:2-4   [1945]10:2-4   [1946]10:5   [1947]10:5   [1948]10:5
   [1949]10:5-15   [1950]10:7-8   [1951]10:8   [1952]10:10   [1953]10:10
   [1954]10:13   [1955]10:16-23   [1956]10:17   [1957]10:18-20
   [1958]10:18-20   [1959]10:21-25   [1960]10:24-34   [1961]10:25
   [1962]10:26   [1963]10:26   [1964]10:26-33   [1965]10:34
   [1966]10:35-36   [1967]10:37-38   [1968]10:40-42   [1969]11:1
   [1970]11:2   [1971]11:2-14   [1972]11:2-19   [1973]11:5
   [1974]11:7-19   [1975]11:11   [1976]11:12   [1977]11:12   [1978]11:12
   [1979]11:12-14   [1980]11:13-17   [1981]11:14   [1982]11:14
   [1983]11:14   [1984]11:14-19   [1985]11:16-19   [1986]11:16-19
   [1987]11:16-42   [1988]11:17-18   [1989]11:19   [1990]11:20-24
   [1991]11:20-24   [1992]11:20-30   [1993]11:20-30   [1994]11:21
   [1995]11:25-27   [1996]11:25-30   [1997]11:27   [1998]11:27-31
   [1999]11:28-30   [2000]11:28-30   [2001]12   [2002]12   [2003]12:1-21
   [2004]12:1-21   [2005]12:7   [2006]12:9-13   [2007]12:11
   [2008]12:12   [2009]12:13   [2010]12:14   [2011]12:14   [2012]12:18
   [2013]12:22   [2014]12:22   [2015]12:22-32   [2016]12:22-45
   [2017]12:22-45   [2018]12:22-45   [2019]12:23   [2020]12:24
   [2021]12:25   [2022]12:25-28   [2023]12:25-28   [2024]12:30
   [2025]12:31-32   [2026]12:31-32   [2027]12:33-37   [2028]12:38
   [2029]12:38-40   [2030]12:39-42   [2031]12:40   [2032]12:46
   [2033]12:46   [2034]12:46   [2035]12:46-47   [2036]12:46-50
   [2037]12:46-50   [2038]13   [2039]13   [2040]13   [2041]13:1-2
   [2042]13:1-9   [2043]13:1-52   [2044]13:3   [2045]13:3-9
   [2046]13:10   [2047]13:11-15   [2048]13:13-15   [2049]13:16
   [2050]13:16   [2051]13:16   [2052]13:17   [2053]13:18   [2054]13:33
   [2055]13:34   [2056]13:36   [2057]13:36   [2058]13:36   [2059]13:44
   [2060]13:54-58   [2061]13:54-58   [2062]13:55   [2063]14:1
   [2064]14:1-12   [2065]14:3-4   [2066]14:5   [2067]14:8
   [2068]14:12-13   [2069]14:13   [2070]14:13-21   [2071]14:14
   [2072]14:14   [2073]14:15   [2074]14:17   [2075]14:19   [2076]14:19
   [2077]14:20   [2078]14:22   [2079]14:22   [2080]14:22
   [2081]14:22-36   [2082]14:23   [2083]14:23   [2084]14:24
   [2085]14:24   [2086]14:26   [2087]14:33   [2088]14:34-36   [2089]15:1
   [2090]15:1   [2091]15:1-9   [2092]15:1-20   [2093]15:2   [2094]15:3
   [2095]15:6   [2096]15:10   [2097]15:10   [2098]15:10-11   [2099]15:11
   [2100]15:12   [2101]15:12   [2102]15:12-14   [2103]15:12-14
   [2104]15:15   [2105]15:15-20   [2106]15:17   [2107]15:18
   [2108]15:19   [2109]15:21   [2110]15:21   [2111]15:21
   [2112]15:21-28   [2113]15:22   [2114]15:22   [2115]15:23
   [2116]15:28   [2117]15:29-31   [2118]15:29-31   [2119]15:32
   [2120]15:36   [2121]15:39   [2122]16:1   [2123]16:1-4   [2124]16:2
   [2125]16:2-3   [2126]16:3   [2127]16:6-7   [2128]16:9-10
   [2129]16:13-28   [2130]16:16   [2131]16:16   [2132]16:19
   [2133]16:21   [2134]16:21   [2135]16:23   [2136]16:24-27
   [2137]16:28   [2138]16:28   [2139]17:1   [2140]17:1-8   [2141]17:9-21
   [2142]17:12   [2143]17:20   [2144]17:20   [2145]17:21   [2146]17:21
   [2147]17:22   [2148]17:22   [2149]17:23   [2150]17:25   [2151]18
   [2152]18:1   [2153]18:1-6   [2154]18:1-14   [2155]18:2-6   [2156]18:3
   [2157]18:3   [2158]18:5   [2159]18:6-35   [2160]18:8-9   [2161]18:11
   [2162]18:12-14   [2163]18:15   [2164]18:15   [2165]18:15
   [2166]18:15-22   [2167]18:17   [2168]18:19   [2169]18:19-20
   [2170]18:19-20   [2171]18:21   [2172]18:21   [2173]18:21
   [2174]18:21-22   [2175]18:23   [2176]18:23-35   [2177]18:23-35
   [2178]18:35   [2179]19:1   [2180]19:1   [2181]19:1-2   [2182]19:1-2
   [2183]19:1-2   [2184]19:3   [2185]19:3-12   [2186]19:3-12
   [2187]19:4   [2188]19:8   [2189]19:10-12   [2190]19:12
   [2191]19:13-15   [2192]19:13-15   [2193]19:16   [2194]19:16-22
   [2195]19:16-22   [2196]19:20   [2197]19:21   [2198]19:23-24
   [2199]19:23-30   [2200]19:28   [2201]19:28   [2202]19:29
   [2203]19:30   [2204]19:30   [2205]19:30   [2206]19:30   [2207]19:30
   [2208]20   [2209]20:1   [2210]20:1   [2211]20:2   [2212]20:15
   [2213]20:17   [2214]20:17-19   [2215]20:17-19   [2216]20:17-19
   [2217]20:20   [2218]20:20   [2219]20:20-28   [2220]20:20-28
   [2221]20:24   [2222]20:28   [2223]20:28   [2224]20:29-34
   [2225]20:29-34   [2226]20:30-31   [2227]21   [2228]21:1-11
   [2229]21:5   [2230]21:12   [2231]21:12   [2232]21:12   [2233]21:12-22
   [2234]21:18   [2235]21:23-27   [2236]21:23-27   [2237]21:25
   [2238]21:25   [2239]21:28-32   [2240]21:28-32   [2241]21:29
   [2242]21:29   [2243]21:32   [2244]21:33   [2245]21:33-46
   [2246]21:38   [2247]21:40-41   [2248]21:41   [2249]21:45   [2250]22
   [2251]22:1-9   [2252]22:1-14   [2253]22:1-14   [2254]22:8
   [2255]22:12   [2256]22:14   [2257]22:15-22   [2258]22:15-22
   [2259]22:20   [2260]22:23   [2261]22:23   [2262]22:23-33
   [2263]22:29-30   [2264]22:32   [2265]22:34   [2266]22:34
   [2267]22:34-40   [2268]22:34-40   [2269]22:35   [2270]22:35
   [2271]22:41-46   [2272]22:41-46   [2273]22:41-46   [2274]22:42-45
   [2275]22:46   [2276]23   [2277]23   [2278]23   [2279]23   [2280]23
   [2281]23   [2282]23   [2283]23:2   [2284]23:3-4   [2285]23:3-4
   [2286]23:3-4   [2287]23:4   [2288]23:5   [2289]23:5   [2290]23:6
   [2291]23:13-33   [2292]23:14   [2293]23:23   [2294]23:25-26
   [2295]23:25-26   [2296]23:27   [2297]23:34-36   [2298]23:37-39
   [2299]23:37-39   [2300]23:39   [2301]24   [2302]24   [2303]24
   [2304]24   [2305]24   [2306]24   [2307]24   [2308]24:1   [2309]24:1
   [2310]24:3   [2311]24:3   [2312]24:3   [2313]24:3-29   [2314]24:4-35
   [2315]24:6   [2316]24:6-8   [2317]24:8   [2318]24:8   [2319]24:9-14
   [2320]24:9-14   [2321]24:10-13   [2322]24:14   [2323]24:15-28
   [2324]24:22   [2325]24:30   [2326]24:32   [2327]24:32   [2328]24:34
   [2329]24:36   [2330]24:36   [2331]24:36-51   [2332]24:43-44
   [2333]24:43-44   [2334]24:45-51   [2335]25   [2336]25:1-13
   [2337]25:1-30   [2338]25:6   [2339]25:14-30   [2340]25:14-30
   [2341]25:31-46   [2342]25:46   [2343]26:1   [2344]26:1   [2345]26:1-5
   [2346]26:3-6   [2347]26:6   [2348]26:6   [2349]26:6-13
   [2350]26:6-13   [2351]26:13   [2352]26:17-19   [2353]26:17-19
   [2354]26:17-20   [2355]26:20   [2356]26:21   [2357]26:21-24
   [2358]26:24   [2359]26:25   [2360]26:25   [2361]26:26
   [2362]26:26-29   [2363]26:30   [2364]26:30   [2365]26:30-56
   [2366]26:32   [2367]26:33   [2368]26:36   [2369]26:36   [2370]26:39
   [2371]26:40   [2372]26:40-42   [2373]26:42   [2374]26:43
   [2375]26:45   [2376]26:49   [2377]26:50   [2378]26:57-58
   [2379]26:58   [2380]26:59-68   [2381]26:60-61   [2382]26:66
   [2383]26:69   [2384]26:69-70   [2385]26:71-72   [2386]26:73-75
   [2387]27:1   [2388]27:1-2   [2389]27:3   [2390]27:3-10
   [2391]27:3-10   [2392]27:5   [2393]27:5   [2394]27:7   [2395]27:11
   [2396]27:12   [2397]27:15-18   [2398]27:17   [2399]27:18
   [2400]27:20-31   [2401]27:20-31   [2402]27:24-25   [2403]27:31-43
   [2404]27:42   [2405]27:45-56   [2406]27:48-49   [2407]27:51
   [2408]27:51   [2409]27:52-53   [2410]27:55   [2411]27:55
   [2412]27:56   [2413]27:56   [2414]27:57-61   [2415]27:62-66
   [2416]27:62-66   [2417]28:1   [2418]28:1   [2419]28:1-10   [2420]28:9
   [2421]28:9   [2422]28:11-15   [2423]28:16   [2424]28:16   [2425]28:16
   [2426]28:16   [2427]28:17   [2428]28:17-20   [2429]28:19   [2430]28:44

   Mark

   [2431]1:2-8   [2432]1:7-11   [2433]1:10   [2434]1:12-13   [2435]1:14
   [2436]1:14   [2437]1:14   [2438]1:14   [2439]1:14-15   [2440]1:14-15
   [2441]1:15   [2442]1:15   [2443]1:16   [2444]1:16   [2445]1:16
   [2446]1:16-20   [2447]1:16-20   [2448]1:20   [2449]1:21-34
   [2450]1:22   [2451]1:23   [2452]1:25   [2453]1:27   [2454]1:27
   [2455]1:29   [2456]1:35   [2457]1:35   [2458]1:35   [2459]1:35-45
   [2460]1:38   [2461]1:40-41   [2462]1:40-45   [2463]1:43   [2464]1:44
   [2465]1:45   [2466]2:1   [2467]2:1-12   [2468]2:6-7   [2469]2:9
   [2470]2:10   [2471]2:13   [2472]2:13-17   [2473]2:15   [2474]2:16
   [2475]2:17   [2476]2:18   [2477]2:18   [2478]2:18-22   [2479]2:23
   [2480]2:23   [2481]3:4   [2482]3:6   [2483]3:11   [2484]3:12
   [2485]3:13-15   [2486]3:13-19   [2487]3:13-19   [2488]3:18
   [2489]3:19-21   [2490]3:20-21   [2491]3:22   [2492]3:22   [2493]3:22
   [2494]3:22-30   [2495]3:22-30   [2496]3:23   [2497]3:23
   [2498]3:23-30   [2499]3:23-30   [2500]3:31   [2501]3:31   [2502]3:31
   [2503]3:32   [2504]4:1-34   [2505]4:10   [2506]4:11   [2507]4:11
   [2508]4:11-12   [2509]4:12   [2510]4:26   [2511]4:26-29
   [2512]4:26-29   [2513]4:26-29   [2514]4:26-29   [2515]4:30
   [2516]4:32   [2517]4:33-34   [2518]4:35-41   [2519]4:36   [2520]4:37
   [2521]4:38   [2522]4:39   [2523]5:1-16   [2524]5:1-20   [2525]5:3-4
   [2526]5:5   [2527]5:6   [2528]5:13   [2529]5:20   [2530]5:21-43
   [2531]5:22   [2532]5:22   [2533]5:27   [2534]5:31   [2535]5:37
   [2536]5:41   [2537]6   [2538]6:1   [2539]6:1-6   [2540]6:1-13
   [2541]6:2   [2542]6:3   [2543]6:3   [2544]6:3   [2545]6:3   [2546]6:5
   [2547]6:7   [2548]6:7   [2549]6:7-11   [2550]6:12-13   [2551]6:13
   [2552]6:20   [2553]6:30   [2554]6:30-44   [2555]6:31-33   [2556]6:32
   [2557]6:33   [2558]6:34   [2559]6:34   [2560]6:35   [2561]6:38
   [2562]6:38   [2563]6:39   [2564]6:39   [2565]6:39   [2566]6:39
   [2567]6:40   [2568]6:40   [2569]6:45   [2570]6:45   [2571]6:45
   [2572]6:48   [2573]6:49   [2574]6:53   [2575]6:53-56   [2576]6:56
   [2577]6:56   [2578]7:1   [2579]7:1-4   [2580]7:1-23   [2581]7:2-5
   [2582]7:3   [2583]7:9   [2584]7:13   [2585]7:14   [2586]7:14-15
   [2587]7:16   [2588]7:17-23   [2589]7:19   [2590]7:21   [2591]7:24
   [2592]7:24-25   [2593]7:24-30   [2594]7:25   [2595]7:26   [2596]7:31
   [2597]7:31-37   [2598]7:34   [2599]7:36   [2600]7:37   [2601]8:1-21
   [2602]8:6   [2603]8:6-7   [2604]8:11   [2605]8:12   [2606]8:12
   [2607]8:22-26   [2608]8:22-26   [2609]8:23   [2610]8:24   [2611]8:27
   [2612]8:27   [2613]8:29   [2614]9:1   [2615]9:2-8   [2616]9:3
   [2617]9:9-29   [2618]9:10   [2619]9:10   [2620]9:13   [2621]9:16
   [2622]9:21   [2623]9:25   [2624]9:30-50   [2625]9:31   [2626]9:33
   [2627]9:34   [2628]9:35   [2629]9:38   [2630]9:38   [2631]9:38
   [2632]9:42-50   [2633]9:43   [2634]9:44   [2635]9:45   [2636]9:47
   [2637]9:49-50   [2638]9:50   [2639]10   [2640]10:1   [2641]10:1
   [2642]10:1   [2643]10:2-12   [2644]10:2-12   [2645]10:4   [2646]10:10
   [2647]10:13-16   [2648]10:13-16   [2649]10:17-22   [2650]10:19
   [2651]10:21   [2652]10:23   [2653]10:23-31   [2654]10:24
   [2655]10:24   [2656]10:26   [2657]10:30   [2658]10:31   [2659]10:32
   [2660]10:32   [2661]10:32   [2662]10:32-34   [2663]10:35
   [2664]10:35-45   [2665]10:35-45   [2666]10:41   [2667]10:41
   [2668]10:45   [2669]10:46-52   [2670]10:47-48   [2671]10:49
   [2672]10:51   [2673]11:1-11   [2674]11:3   [2675]11:11
   [2676]11:15-26   [2677]11:20   [2678]11:20   [2679]11:25
   [2680]11:27-33   [2681]11:27-33   [2682]12:1-12   [2683]12:9
   [2684]12:13-17   [2685]12:13-17   [2686]12:14   [2687]12:17
   [2688]12:18-27   [2689]12:28   [2690]12:28-34   [2691]12:28-34
   [2692]12:33-34   [2693]12:35-40   [2694]12:40   [2695]13   [2696]13
   [2697]13   [2698]13   [2699]13   [2700]13:1   [2701]13:8
   [2702]13:9-13   [2703]13:35   [2704]13:37   [2705]13:41-44   [2706]14
   [2707]14   [2708]14:1   [2709]14:1-2   [2710]14:2   [2711]14:3
   [2712]14:3-9   [2713]14:3-9   [2714]14:3-9   [2715]14:5   [2716]14:8
   [2717]14:10   [2718]14:11   [2719]14:12-16   [2720]14:12-16
   [2721]14:12-17   [2722]14:14   [2723]14:14   [2724]14:17
   [2725]14:18   [2726]14:21   [2727]14:22   [2728]14:22-25
   [2729]14:26   [2730]14:26   [2731]14:26-52   [2732]14:28
   [2733]14:32   [2734]14:36   [2735]14:40   [2736]14:41   [2737]14:41
   [2738]14:45   [2739]14:46   [2740]14:51   [2741]14:53-54
   [2742]14:54   [2743]14:55-65   [2744]14:64   [2745]14:66
   [2746]14:66   [2747]14:66-68   [2748]14:69-70   [2749]14:70-72
   [2750]15   [2751]15:1   [2752]15:8   [2753]15:11-20   [2754]15:11-20
   [2755]15:20-32   [2756]15:21   [2757]15:23   [2758]15:25
   [2759]15:32   [2760]15:33-41   [2761]15:36   [2762]15:39
   [2763]15:40   [2764]15:40   [2765]15:40-41   [2766]15:40-41
   [2767]15:42-47   [2768]15:43   [2769]15:95   [2770]16   [2771]16:1
   [2772]16:1   [2773]16:1-11   [2774]16:9   [2775]16:10   [2776]16:11
   [2777]16:12   [2778]16:12-13   [2779]16:14   [2780]16:14
   [2781]16:18   [2782]16:19-20   [2783]16:28

   Luke

   [2784]1:2   [2785]1:4   [2786]1:4   [2787]1:5   [2788]1:5-25
   [2789]1:7   [2790]1:9   [2791]1:17   [2792]1:17   [2793]1:20
   [2794]1:24   [2795]1:26   [2796]1:26-80   [2797]1:27   [2798]1:32
   [2799]1:33   [2800]1:36   [2801]1:36   [2802]1:62   [2803]1:63
   [2804]1:68   [2805]1:69   [2806]1:78   [2807]1:80   [2808]1:80
   [2809]2:1-20   [2810]2:2   [2811]2:2   [2812]2:5   [2813]2:5
   [2814]2:5   [2815]2:7   [2816]2:7   [2817]2:7   [2818]2:7   [2819]2:7
   [2820]2:12   [2821]2:19   [2822]2:19   [2823]2:21-38   [2824]2:22
   [2825]2:24   [2826]2:27   [2827]2:29-32   [2828]2:32   [2829]2:32
   [2830]2:36   [2831]2:37   [2832]2:39-40   [2833]2:40   [2834]2:40
   [2835]2:41-52   [2836]2:43   [2837]2:48   [2838]2:49   [2839]2:51
   [2840]2:51   [2841]2:52   [2842]3:1-18   [2843]3:3   [2844]3:15
   [2845]3:15   [2846]3:17   [2847]3:19   [2848]3:19   [2849]3:21
   [2850]3:21   [2851]3:21-23   [2852]3:23   [2853]4:1   [2854]4:1-13
   [2855]4:11   [2856]4:14-15   [2857]4:15   [2858]4:15-32   [2859]4:16
   [2860]4:16   [2861]4:16   [2862]4:16   [2863]4:16-30   [2864]4:16-31
   [2865]4:18-19   [2866]4:20   [2867]4:23   [2868]4:23   [2869]4:23
   [2870]4:31   [2871]4:31-32   [2872]4:33-41   [2873]4:35   [2874]4:36
   [2875]4:39   [2876]4:42-44   [2877]4:43   [2878]5   [2879]5
   [2880]5:1   [2881]5:1-11   [2882]5:1-11   [2883]5:2   [2884]5:5
   [2885]5:11   [2886]5:14   [2887]5:17   [2888]5:17   [2889]5:17-26
   [2890]5:21   [2891]5:21   [2892]5:27-32   [2893]5:30   [2894]5:31
   [2895]5:32   [2896]5:33   [2897]5:33   [2898]5:33-39   [2899]5:36
   [2900]5:36   [2901]5:39   [2902]6   [2903]6:1-11   [2904]6:4
   [2905]6:6   [2906]6:7   [2907]6:11   [2908]6:12   [2909]6:12-13
   [2910]6:12-19   [2911]6:12-19   [2912]6:13   [2913]6:15   [2914]6:15
   [2915]6:17   [2916]6:17   [2917]6:20   [2918]6:38   [2919]6:39
   [2920]7:1   [2921]7:1-10   [2922]7:5   [2923]7:5   [2924]7:6
   [2925]7:8   [2926]7:11-17   [2927]7:12   [2928]7:17   [2929]7:18-35
   [2930]7:18-35   [2931]7:21   [2932]7:26   [2933]7:28   [2934]7:28
   [2935]7:29-30   [2936]7:30   [2937]7:30   [2938]7:30   [2939]7:31-32
   [2940]7:36   [2941]7:36   [2942]7:36-50   [2943]7:40   [2944]8:1
   [2945]8:1-3   [2946]8:1-3   [2947]8:3   [2948]8:3   [2949]8:4-18
   [2950]8:5   [2951]8:10   [2952]8:14   [2953]8:17   [2954]8:19
   [2955]8:19   [2956]8:22-25   [2957]8:26-39   [2958]8:27   [2959]8:28
   [2960]8:29   [2961]8:40-56   [2962]8:44   [2963]8:45   [2964]8:47
   [2965]8:56   [2966]9:1   [2967]9:1-5   [2968]9:1-6   [2969]9:1-56
   [2970]9:6   [2971]9:7-9   [2972]9:7-9   [2973]9:9   [2974]9:9
   [2975]9:10   [2976]9:10-17   [2977]9:11   [2978]9:13   [2979]9:14
   [2980]9:18   [2981]9:18   [2982]9:18-27   [2983]9:27   [2984]9:28-36
   [2985]9:30   [2986]9:31   [2987]9:34   [2988]9:37   [2989]9:37-43
   [2990]9:43-50   [2991]9:49   [2992]9:50   [2993]9:51   [2994]9:51
   [2995]9:51   [2996]9:52-56   [2997]9:53   [2998]9:54   [2999]9:54
   [3000]9:59   [3001]10   [3002]10:1-16   [3003]10:2   [3004]10:2
   [3005]10:2   [3006]10:6   [3007]10:7-8   [3008]10:9   [3009]10:12-16
   [3010]10:13   [3011]10:13-16   [3012]10:13-22   [3013]10:15
   [3014]10:17   [3015]10:17-18   [3016]10:17-20   [3017]10:17-24
   [3018]10:18   [3019]10:18   [3020]10:22   [3021]10:22
   [3022]10:23-24   [3023]10:23-24   [3024]10:25   [3025]10:25
   [3026]10:25-37   [3027]10:25-37   [3028]10:29   [3029]10:31
   [3030]10:31   [3031]10:38   [3032]10:38   [3033]10:38   [3034]10:38
   [3035]11   [3036]11   [3037]11   [3038]11:1   [3039]11:5
   [3040]11:5-13   [3041]11:8   [3042]11:14   [3043]11:14   [3044]11:14
   [3045]11:14   [3046]11:14-26   [3047]11:14-36   [3048]11:14-36
   [3049]11:17   [3050]11:19   [3051]11:21-22   [3052]11:22
   [3053]11:22   [3054]11:24   [3055]11:27   [3056]11:27   [3057]11:27
   [3058]11:30   [3059]11:33-36   [3060]11:37   [3061]11:37-54
   [3062]11:37-54   [3063]11:38-39   [3064]11:39   [3065]11:39
   [3066]11:39-52   [3067]11:41   [3068]11:42   [3069]11:43
   [3070]11:44   [3071]11:45   [3072]11:46   [3073]11:52
   [3074]11:53-54   [3075]11:53-54   [3076]12   [3077]12   [3078]12:1
   [3079]12:1   [3080]12:1-2   [3081]12:1-12   [3082]12:2   [3083]12:2-9
   [3084]12:10   [3085]12:10   [3086]12:11-12   [3087]12:13-21
   [3088]12:13-21   [3089]12:16-21   [3090]12:22-34   [3091]12:29
   [3092]12:32   [3093]12:33-34   [3094]12:35-48   [3095]12:39-40
   [3096]12:42-46   [3097]12:42-46   [3098]12:47-48   [3099]12:48
   [3100]12:49-53   [3101]12:51-53   [3102]12:56   [3103]12:58-59
   [3104]13:1   [3105]13:1-5   [3106]13:2-3   [3107]13:4   [3108]13:6-9
   [3109]13:6-9   [3110]13:6-9   [3111]13:7   [3112]13:10-17
   [3113]13:14   [3114]13:14   [3115]13:15-16   [3116]13:18-19
   [3117]13:22   [3118]13:22   [3119]13:23   [3120]13:23-30
   [3121]13:23-30   [3122]13:27   [3123]13:30   [3124]13:31-32
   [3125]13:31-33   [3126]13:31-35   [3127]13:32   [3128]14:1-11
   [3129]14:1-11   [3130]14:4   [3131]14:5   [3132]14:11   [3133]14:12
   [3134]14:13   [3135]14:14   [3136]14:16-17   [3137]14:16-24
   [3138]14:21-24   [3139]14:25-35   [3140]14:26   [3141]15
   [3142]15:1-2   [3143]15:3-7   [3144]15:4   [3145]15:8-10
   [3146]15:13   [3147]15:23   [3148]15:32   [3149]16   [3150]16
   [3151]16:1-8   [3152]16:2-3   [3153]16:7   [3154]16:9   [3155]16:10
   [3156]16:11   [3157]16:14   [3158]16:14   [3159]16:14
   [3160]16:14-31   [3161]16:15   [3162]16:16-17   [3163]16:17
   [3164]16:17-18   [3165]16:23-26   [3166]16:27-31   [3167]17
   [3168]17:1-2   [3169]17:1-7   [3170]17:1-10   [3171]17:6
   [3172]17:10   [3173]17:11   [3174]17:11   [3175]17:11   [3176]17:11
   [3177]17:12-19   [3178]17:12-19   [3179]17:14   [3180]17:16
   [3181]17:18   [3182]17:20   [3183]17:20-37   [3184]17:20-37
   [3185]17:35   [3186]18:1   [3187]18:1-14   [3188]18:4   [3189]18:7-8
   [3190]18:8   [3191]18:9-14   [3192]18:12   [3193]18:15-17
   [3194]18:15-17   [3195]18:15-17   [3196]18:15-17   [3197]18:18-23
   [3198]18:18-23   [3199]18:24-30   [3200]18:29-30   [3201]18:31
   [3202]18:31-34   [3203]18:35-43   [3204]18:35-43   [3205]19
   [3206]19:1-10   [3207]19:1-10   [3208]19:10   [3209]19:11-28
   [3210]19:11-28   [3211]19:12-27   [3212]19:29-44   [3213]19:37-38
   [3214]19:39   [3215]19:41   [3216]19:41   [3217]19:41-44
   [3218]19:45   [3219]19:45-48   [3220]20:1-8   [3221]20:1-8
   [3222]20:9   [3223]20:9-19   [3224]20:19-26   [3225]20:20-26
   [3226]20:27-39   [3227]20:40-47   [3228]20:45-47   [3229]20:47
   [3230]21:1-4   [3231]21:1-4   [3232]21:5-38   [3233]21:12
   [3234]21:24   [3235]21:29-31   [3236]21:31   [3237]21:32
   [3238]21:36-38   [3239]21:37   [3240]22:1   [3241]22:1-6   [3242]22:2
   [3243]22:2-3   [3244]22:3   [3245]22:4   [3246]22:7   [3247]22:7-13
   [3248]22:7-13   [3249]22:8   [3250]22:8   [3251]22:11   [3252]22:11
   [3253]22:14-16   [3254]22:17-18   [3255]22:17-18   [3256]22:19-20
   [3257]22:21-23   [3258]22:24-30   [3259]22:25   [3260]22:28
   [3261]22:30   [3262]22:31   [3263]22:31-53   [3264]22:35-38
   [3265]22:37   [3266]22:39   [3267]22:41   [3268]22:48
   [3269]22:54-55   [3270]22:56-57   [3271]22:58   [3272]22:59-62
   [3273]22:66   [3274]22:66   [3275]22:66   [3276]22:66
   [3277]22:67-68   [3278]22:67-71   [3279]23:1-5   [3280]23:2
   [3281]23:2   [3282]23:2   [3283]23:6-7   [3284]23:6-12
   [3285]23:6-12   [3286]23:13   [3287]23:18-25   [3288]23:18-25
   [3289]23:26   [3290]23:26-38   [3291]23:27-31   [3292]23:27-31
   [3293]23:35   [3294]23:39-43   [3295]23:44-49   [3296]23:49
   [3297]23:50-56   [3298]23:51   [3299]23:54   [3300]23:55   [3301]24
   [3302]24:1-12   [3303]24:10   [3304]24:10   [3305]24:13-35
   [3306]24:21   [3307]24:33   [3308]24:36-43   [3309]24:38-43
   [3310]24:38-43   [3311]24:39   [3312]24:44   [3313]24:44-53
   [3314]24:47

   John

   [3315]1   [3316]1   [3317]1   [3318]1   [3319]1   [3320]1:10
   [3321]1:10   [3322]1:11-13   [3323]1:13   [3324]1:14   [3325]1:15-51
   [3326]1:19-24   [3327]1:20   [3328]1:22-28   [3329]1:24   [3330]1:28
   [3331]1:28   [3332]1:29   [3333]1:32   [3334]1:32-34   [3335]1:33
   [3336]1:33   [3337]1:33   [3338]1:33   [3339]1:34   [3340]1:37
   [3341]1:42   [3342]1:44   [3343]1:45-51   [3344]1:46   [3345]1:48-49
   [3346]2   [3347]2   [3348]2:1   [3349]2:1-11   [3350]2:1-12
   [3351]2:3   [3352]2:6   [3353]2:12   [3354]2:13   [3355]2:13
   [3356]2:13   [3357]2:13-17   [3358]2:13-25   [3359]2:14
   [3360]2:18-19   [3361]2:19   [3362]2:19   [3363]2:20   [3364]2:20
   [3365]2:20   [3366]2:23   [3367]2:23   [3368]3:1-21   [3369]3:3
   [3370]3:3   [3371]3:3   [3372]3:5   [3373]3:5   [3374]3:5   [3375]3:8
   [3376]3:13   [3377]3:16   [3378]3:16-21   [3379]3:16-21   [3380]3:17
   [3381]3:20   [3382]3:22   [3383]3:22   [3384]3:22   [3385]3:24
   [3386]3:25   [3387]3:25   [3388]3:25-30   [3389]3:26   [3390]3:29
   [3391]3:29   [3392]3:29   [3393]3:29   [3394]3:31   [3395]4   [3396]4
   [3397]4:1   [3398]4:1   [3399]4:1-2   [3400]4:1-4   [3401]4:1-42
   [3402]4:4   [3403]4:9   [3404]4:20   [3405]4:33   [3406]4:35
   [3407]4:35   [3408]4:35   [3409]4:35   [3410]4:43-54   [3411]4:43-54
   [3412]4:44   [3413]4:44   [3414]4:45   [3415]4:45   [3416]4:45-54
   [3417]4:46-53   [3418]4:46-54   [3419]4:47   [3420]5   [3421]5
   [3422]5   [3423]5   [3424]5   [3425]5   [3426]5   [3427]5   [3428]5
   [3429]5   [3430]5:1   [3431]5:1   [3432]5:1   [3433]5:3   [3434]5:7
   [3435]5:8   [3436]5:9   [3437]5:15-16   [3438]5:16   [3439]5:16
   [3440]5:16-17   [3441]5:17-47   [3442]5:18   [3443]5:18   [3444]5:27
   [3445]5:36   [3446]6   [3447]6   [3448]6:1   [3449]6:1-14   [3450]6:2
   [3451]6:3   [3452]6:4   [3453]6:4   [3454]6:4   [3455]6:4   [3456]6:6
   [3457]6:6   [3458]6:9   [3459]6:9   [3460]6:10   [3461]6:10
   [3462]6:15   [3463]6:17   [3464]6:19   [3465]6:19   [3466]6:21
   [3467]6:21   [3468]6:21   [3469]6:22   [3470]6:22   [3471]6:22-24
   [3472]6:22-25   [3473]6:22-71   [3474]6:24   [3475]6:25
   [3476]6:25-29   [3477]6:29-30   [3478]6:30-36   [3479]6:31
   [3480]6:37-40   [3481]6:40   [3482]6:41-51   [3483]6:42
   [3484]6:48-58   [3485]6:49   [3486]6:51   [3487]6:53-58   [3488]6:59
   [3489]6:59   [3490]6:59   [3491]6:60-66   [3492]6:60-66   [3493]6:66
   [3494]6:66-70   [3495]6:67   [3496]6:68   [3497]6:68-69   [3498]6:69
   [3499]7   [3500]7   [3501]7   [3502]7   [3503]7:1-5   [3504]7:1-16
   [3505]7:2   [3506]7:2   [3507]7:3-5   [3508]7:4   [3509]7:11
   [3510]7:11-36   [3511]7:13   [3512]7:14   [3513]7:14   [3514]7:15
   [3515]7:15   [3516]7:16-17   [3517]7:17   [3518]7:18   [3519]7:19-20
   [3520]7:20   [3521]7:25-27   [3522]7:26   [3523]7:26   [3524]7:28
   [3525]7:29   [3526]7:35   [3527]7:37   [3528]7:37-43   [3529]7:40-42
   [3530]7:50   [3531]7:50-52   [3532]7:53   [3533]7:53   [3534]8:3
   [3535]8:12   [3536]8:12-59   [3537]8:13   [3538]8:14   [3539]8:19
   [3540]8:20   [3541]8:22   [3542]8:28-29   [3543]8:33   [3544]8:34
   [3545]8:39   [3546]8:44   [3547]8:48   [3548]8:48   [3549]8:50
   [3550]8:52   [3551]8:53   [3552]8:56   [3553]8:56   [3554]9
   [3555]9:3   [3556]9:4-5   [3557]9:6   [3558]9:7   [3559]9:11
   [3560]9:14   [3561]9:15   [3562]9:16   [3563]9:24   [3564]9:26
   [3565]9:32   [3566]9:35   [3567]9:35   [3568]9:36   [3569]10
   [3570]10   [3571]10:1-5   [3572]10:1-21   [3573]10:4-5   [3574]10:6
   [3575]10:11   [3576]10:11   [3577]10:13-15   [3578]10:15
   [3579]10:17-18   [3580]10:18   [3581]10:19   [3582]10:19-21
   [3583]10:22   [3584]10:22   [3585]10:22-39   [3586]10:22-42
   [3587]10:22-42   [3588]10:23   [3589]10:27-28   [3590]10:37
   [3591]10:39-43   [3592]11   [3593]11   [3594]11   [3595]11   [3596]11
   [3597]11:1-54   [3598]11:2   [3599]11:4   [3600]11:6   [3601]11:8
   [3602]11:8   [3603]11:16   [3604]11:20   [3605]11:33   [3606]11:35-44
   [3607]11:38   [3608]11:41   [3609]11:45   [3610]11:47-48
   [3611]11:47-50   [3612]11:47-50   [3613]11:48   [3614]11:49
   [3615]11:54   [3616]11:54   [3617]11:54   [3618]11:55   [3619]11:55
   [3620]11:55-57   [3621]11:57   [3622]12   [3623]12   [3624]12:1
   [3625]12:1   [3626]12:2-11   [3627]12:5-6   [3628]12:10-11
   [3629]12:12   [3630]12:12-19   [3631]12:16   [3632]12:18
   [3633]12:19   [3634]12:20-50   [3635]12:20-50   [3636]12:21
   [3637]12:21   [3638]12:23   [3639]12:25   [3640]12:31   [3641]12:32
   [3642]12:32   [3643]12:36   [3644]12:40   [3645]12:42   [3646]12:44
   [3647]13   [3648]13   [3649]13   [3650]13   [3651]13:1   [3652]13:1
   [3653]13:2   [3654]13:2   [3655]13:2   [3656]13:2-20   [3657]13:4
   [3658]13:11   [3659]13:12-16   [3660]13:12-17   [3661]13:17
   [3662]13:18-19   [3663]13:20   [3664]13:21   [3665]13:21-26
   [3666]13:22   [3667]13:24   [3668]13:24   [3669]13:26
   [3670]13:26-38   [3671]13:27   [3672]13:28   [3673]13:30
   [3674]13:31-35   [3675]13:33   [3676]13:36-38   [3677]13:37
   [3678]14   [3679]14   [3680]14   [3681]14   [3682]14   [3683]14:1-4
   [3684]14:5   [3685]14:7   [3686]14:8-9   [3687]14:12-14   [3688]14:15
   [3689]14:20-21   [3690]14:22   [3691]14:26   [3692]14:27
   [3693]14:30   [3694]15   [3695]15   [3696]15   [3697]15   [3698]15
   [3699]15:7-8   [3700]15:11   [3701]15:16   [3702]15:16   [3703]16
   [3704]16   [3705]16   [3706]16   [3707]16:1-4   [3708]16:7
   [3709]16:8-15   [3710]16:13   [3711]16:23   [3712]16:30
   [3713]16:31-32   [3714]16:32   [3715]17   [3716]17   [3717]17
   [3718]17   [3719]17:3   [3720]17:6-10   [3721]17:9-12   [3722]17:12
   [3723]17:12   [3724]17:15   [3725]17:28   [3726]17:33-37   [3727]18
   [3728]18:1   [3729]18:1   [3730]18:1-2   [3731]18:1-11   [3732]18:3
   [3733]18:5   [3734]18:11   [3735]18:12   [3736]18:12-14   [3737]18:13
   [3738]18:13   [3739]18:14   [3740]18:15   [3741]18:15
   [3742]18:15-18   [3743]18:15-18   [3744]18:17-18   [3745]18:19-23
   [3746]18:19-23   [3747]18:19-23   [3748]18:20   [3749]18:24
   [3750]18:24   [3751]18:25   [3752]18:26   [3753]18:26-27
   [3754]18:28   [3755]18:28   [3756]18:28   [3757]18:28
   [3758]18:28-38   [3759]18:29-30   [3760]18:31   [3761]18:31
   [3762]18:32   [3763]18:36   [3764]18:37   [3765]19   [3766]19
   [3767]19:1   [3768]19:2-16   [3769]19:7   [3770]19:13   [3771]19:14
   [3772]19:16   [3773]19:16-24   [3774]19:19   [3775]19:20
   [3776]19:21-22   [3777]19:21-22   [3778]19:23   [3779]19:23
   [3780]19:23   [3781]19:23   [3782]19:25   [3783]19:25   [3784]19:25
   [3785]19:25   [3786]19:25   [3787]19:25-27   [3788]19:25-27
   [3789]19:26   [3790]19:26   [3791]19:27   [3792]19:28   [3793]19:28
   [3794]19:28-30   [3795]19:31   [3796]19:31-37   [3797]19:31-37
   [3798]19:38-42   [3799]19:39   [3800]19:41   [3801]19:42   [3802]20
   [3803]20:1   [3804]20:1-18   [3805]20:2   [3806]20:9   [3807]20:11-17
   [3808]20:16   [3809]20:19-25   [3810]20:20   [3811]20:23
   [3812]20:26-29   [3813]20:27   [3814]20:30   [3815]20:30-31
   [3816]20:30-31   [3817]20:31   [3818]20:31   [3819]20:31
   [3820]21:1-24   [3821]21:2   [3822]21:2   [3823]21:2   [3824]21:3
   [3825]21:9   [3826]21:9-10   [3827]21:13   [3828]21:13
   [3829]21:15-17   [3830]21:25

   Acts

   [3831]1   [3832]1   [3833]1:2   [3834]1:3   [3835]1:3   [3836]1:3
   [3837]1:3   [3838]1:3   [3839]1:3   [3840]1:3   [3841]1:3-12
   [3842]1:5   [3843]1:14   [3844]1:18   [3845]1:18   [3846]1:19
   [3847]1:24   [3848]2:9-11   [3849]2:9-11   [3850]2:46   [3851]3:1
   [3852]3:2   [3853]3:2   [3854]3:10   [3855]3:17   [3856]3:21
   [3857]4:1-2   [3858]4:5   [3859]4:6   [3860]4:6   [3861]5:12
   [3862]5:17   [3863]5:17   [3864]5:21   [3865]5:31   [3866]5:32
   [3867]5:32   [3868]5:34   [3869]5:34   [3870]5:36   [3871]5:37
   [3872]5:37   [3873]5:37   [3874]5:37   [3875]5:37   [3876]6:1
   [3877]6:1   [3878]6:1   [3879]6:7   [3880]7:34   [3881]7:37
   [3882]7:38   [3883]7:38   [3884]7:38   [3885]7:53   [3886]7:54
   [3887]8:9   [3888]8:32   [3889]9:6   [3890]9:7   [3891]9:25
   [3892]10   [3893]10   [3894]10:2   [3895]10:7   [3896]10:9-16
   [3897]10:48   [3898]11:20-21   [3899]11:26   [3900]11:28
   [3901]12:12   [3902]12:12   [3903]12:13   [3904]12:13   [3905]12:23
   [3906]12:25   [3907]13:1   [3908]13:12   [3909]13:15   [3910]13:15
   [3911]13:16   [3912]13:24   [3913]13:26   [3914]13:41   [3915]13:42
   [3916]13:43   [3917]13:50   [3918]14:23   [3919]15   [3920]15
   [3921]15:7   [3922]15:10   [3923]15:13-21   [3924]15:21
   [3925]15:22-23   [3926]16   [3927]16:14   [3928]16:19
   [3929]17:31-32   [3930]17:32   [3931]17:32   [3932]19:3-5
   [3933]19:14   [3934]19:16   [3935]21   [3936]21:31-32   [3937]22:3
   [3938]22:25-29   [3939]22:30   [3940]23   [3941]24:5   [3942]24:14
   [3943]26:5   [3944]26:7   [3945]26:7   [3946]26:8   [3947]26:24
   [3948]27:9   [3949]28:17

   Romans

   [3950]1:3   [3951]1:3   [3952]1:4   [3953]2   [3954]2   [3955]2:17-24
   [3956]2:25-26   [3957]3:10-18   [3958]3:24   [3959]4:3   [3960]4:4-6
   [3961]5:12   [3962]5:14   [3963]5:18-24   [3964]7   [3965]8:19-21
   [3966]8:23   [3967]9:5   [3968]10:10   [3969]11   [3970]11:11-18
   [3971]13:11   [3972]14:17   [3973]16:13   [3974]16:25-26

   1 Corinthians

   [3975]4:20   [3976]5:4-5   [3977]5:5   [3978]5:11   [3979]5:12
   [3980]5:13   [3981]6:2-3   [3982]6:9-10   [3983]6:20   [3984]7:1
   [3985]7:25   [3986]7:30-31   [3987]9:5   [3988]9:9   [3989]9:9
   [3990]9:25   [3991]9:27   [3992]10   [3993]10:1-4   [3994]10:6
   [3995]10:6   [3996]10:10   [3997]10:11   [3998]10:11   [3999]10:16
   [4000]11:19   [4001]11:23   [4002]11:23-26   [4003]11:24
   [4004]11:30   [4005]12:3   [4006]12:28   [4007]12:31   [4008]13:9
   [4009]13:12   [4010]14:27   [4011]14:27   [4012]14:27-28   [4013]15
   [4014]15:1-8   [4015]15:4-8   [4016]15:5   [4017]15:5   [4018]15:6
   [4019]15:6   [4020]15:7   [4021]15:12-19   [4022]15:12-19
   [4023]15:14-15   [4024]15:17   [4025]15:20-28   [4026]15:24
   [4027]15:35   [4028]15:60   [4029]16:22

   2 Corinthians

   [4030]1:8   [4031]2:6   [4032]2:10   [4033]3:16   [4034]4:1
   [4035]4:16   [4036]5:2   [4037]5:4   [4038]5:15   [4039]7:8
   [4040]7:8   [4041]7:11

   Galatians

   [4042]1:16   [4043]1:17   [4044]1:18   [4045]1:19   [4046]2:11
   [4047]3:13   [4048]3:19   [4049]4:21   [4050]5:20   [4051]5:21
   [4052]6:9

   Ephesians

   [4053]1:9   [4054]1:10   [4055]3:13   [4056]4:8   [4057]4:16
   [4058]5:5   [4059]6:12

   Philippians

   [4060]1   [4061]2:5-7   [4062]2:6   [4063]2:6-11   [4064]2:7
   [4065]2:8   [4066]2:11   [4067]3:17   [4068]100

   Colossians

   [4069]1:13   [4070]1:19-20   [4071]1:19-20   [4072]1:26-27
   [4073]1:29   [4074]4:11

   1 Thessalonians

   [4075]1   [4076]2:12

   2 Thessalonians

   [4077]1:5   [4078]3:13

   1 Timothy

   [4079]1:7   [4080]1:18   [4081]2:4   [4082]2:6   [4083]2:6
   [4084]2:6   [4085]2:8   [4086]3   [4087]4:12   [4088]4:12   [4089]5
   [4090]5:16   [4091]5:17   [4092]5:18   [4093]5:18   [4094]6:12

   2 Timothy

   [4095]1:10   [4096]2:2   [4097]2:8   [4098]3:1-5   [4099]3:5
   [4100]3:15   [4101]4:1   [4102]4:7

   Titus

   [4103]1   [4104]1:5   [4105]2:7   [4106]2:14   [4107]3:5   [4108]3:5
   [4109]3:10   [4110]3:10

   Philemon

   [4111]1:2

   Hebrews

   [4112]1   [4113]2   [4114]2:2   [4115]2:6-9   [4116]2:9   [4117]2:10
   [4118]4:11   [4119]4:15   [4120]4:15   [4121]4:15   [4122]4:16
   [4123]5:7   [4124]5:7   [4125]6:6   [4126]7:14   [4127]7:18
   [4128]7:21   [4129]7:21   [4130]9:9   [4131]9:12   [4132]9:13
   [4133]9:18   [4134]11   [4135]12:1   [4136]12:28   [4137]13:2
   [4138]13:17

   James

   [4139]1:14   [4140]1:14   [4141]2:5   [4142]2:9   [4143]4:4
   [4144]5:9   [4145]5:10

   1 Peter

   [4146]1:1   [4147]1:3   [4148]1:19   [4149]1:19   [4150]1:23
   [4151]2   [4152]2:22   [4153]2:24   [4154]3:18-19   [4155]3:21
   [4156]5   [4157]5:3   [4158]5:13   [4159]5:13

   2 Peter

   [4160]1:11   [4161]1:15   [4162]1:16   [4163]1:16-18   [4164]1:17
   [4165]1:19   [4166]1:19   [4167]2:1   [4168]2:6   [4169]3:4
   [4170]3:5   [4171]3:13

   1 John

   [4172]2:2   [4173]2:8   [4174]2:28   [4175]2:29   [4176]4:10
   [4177]5:6   [4178]5:8   [4179]5:10   [4180]5:18-19

   3 John

   [4181]1:13

   Revelation

   [4182]1:7   [4183]1:7   [4184]1:8   [4185]1:9   [4186]1:9   [4187]1:9
   [4188]1:9   [4189]1:9   [4190]1:9   [4191]1:13   [4192]2:4
   [4193]2:4-6   [4194]2:8   [4195]2:18   [4196]2:20-24   [4197]2:26
   [4198]2:34   [4199]3:19   [4200]3:20   [4201]5:8   [4202]6:10
   [4203]12:7-12   [4204]20:4   [4205]20:10   [4206]20:14   [4207]20:15
   [4208]21:1   [4209]22:15   [4210]1874   [4211]1879

   Tobit

   [4212]4:15   [4213]4:15   [4214]7:14   [4215]7:16   [4216]8:2-3
   [4217]13:16-18

   Wisdom of Solomon

   [4218]2:23-24   [4219]16:6-7

   Baruch

   [4220]1   [4221]2   [4222]3   [4223]3:12   [4224]4:3-6   [4225]6
   [4226]27:22   [4227]32:4   [4228]39:7-8   [4229]74:2-3   [4230]83:8

   1 Maccabees

   [4231]1:15   [4232]1:33   [4233]1:54   [4234]1:57   [4235]1:59
   [4236]2:4   [4237]2:42   [4238]2:65   [4239]2:66   [4240]4:43-46
   [4241]4:46   [4242]4:52-54   [4243]6:30   [4244]6:31   [4245]6:52-59
   [4246]9:50   [4247]9:58-73   [4248]10:18   [4249]10:29-33
   [4250]10:30   [4251]10:38   [4252]12:6   [4253]12:36   [4254]13:27-29
   [4255]13:51   [4256]14:8-14   [4257]14:41-45   [4258]50:54

   2 Maccabees

   [4259]2   [4260]2:1-7   [4261]2:1-8   [4262]2:1-18   [4263]2:13
   [4264]2:13-14   [4265]3:4   [4266]4:8-9   [4267]4:9   [4268]4:19
   [4269]4:25   [4270]5:2-3   [4271]6:1-9   [4272]6:2   [4273]6:18
   [4274]10:6   [4275]10:7   [4276]14:6

   2 Esdras

   [4277]7:28

   Sirach

   [4278]1   [4279]1   [4280]1   [4281]3   [4282]3:21-24   [4283]7:9
   [4284]7:35   [4285]11:18-19   [4286]14:25   [4287]15:11-17
   [4288]24:2   [4289]24:6   [4290]24:21   [4291]29:12   [4292]30
   [4293]32:1   [4294]42:2   [4295]42:10   [4296]48:1-12
     __________________________________________________________________

Index of Greek Words and Phrases

     * degz : [4297]1
     * Bblos katallags: [4298]1
     * pas: [4299]1
     * sabbateon : [4300]1
     * sunaggion: [4301]1
     *  proseuktrion: [4302]1
     *  stge: [4303]1
     * 'Andras: [4304]1
     * 'Asidaoi: [4305]1
     * 'Essaoi: [4306]1
     * 'Esseno, 'Essaoi: [4307]1
     * Osann: [4308]1
     * pleia to martolo es tn ana,: [4309]1
     * basiles tn 'Ioudaon otos: [4310]1
     * dg n ratos ka kataskeastos: [4311]1
     * katalon: [4312]1
     * lgos ss: [4313]1
     * char m: [4314]1
     * etos: [4315]1
     * ostos: [4316]1 [4317]2
     * sthai: [4318]1
     * psas: [4319]1
     * autn: [4320]1
     * bbleto: [4321]1
     * gneto: [4322]1
     * gaths: [4323]1
     * gathotes: [4324]1
     * gaps me: [4325]1
     * gapseis: [4326]1
     * geneto: [4327]1
     * geto: [4328]1
     * nkklios paidea: [4329]1
     * nkanisis: [4330]1
     * nkainzo: [4331]1
     * nkainisms: [4332]1
     * dkrusen: [4333]1 [4334]2
     * dn sukn min,: [4335]1
     * dn, poien,: [4336]1
     * demonen: [4337]1
     * dika: [4338]1
     * dios: [4339]1
     * dopoien: [4340]1
     * thos p to amatos: [4341]1
     * thnos: [4342]1
     * k: [4343]1 [4344]2
     * k to patrs: [4345]1
     * kthisen: [4346]1
     * kptonto ka thrnoun atn: [4347]1
     * krdesen: [4348]1 [4349]2
     * kans: [4350]1
     * katleptos: [4351]1
     * kbatiks: [4352]1 [4353]2
     * kenous: [4354]1
     * kklesa: [4355]1
     * kklesa theo zntos, stlos ka draoma : [4356]1
     * klausen: [4357]1 [4358]2
     * kollthe: [4359]1
     * krbeia: [4360]1
     * lncho: [4361]1
     * les soi: [4362]1
     * legon gr: [4363]1
     * leths: [4364]1 [4365]2
     * lethins: [4366]1 [4367]2
     * llnios: [4368]1
     * llenzein: [4369]1
     * m ok rotsete: [4370]1
     * mra paraskeus: [4371]1
     * ma pro: [4372]1
     * mbrimomai: [4373]1
     * mithan tunchnonta: [4374]1
     * mo: [4375]1
     * mporos: [4376]1
     * n: [4377]1
     * n lethea: [4378]1
     * n st t gathn: [4379]1
     * n mp: [4380]1
     * n t: [4381]1
     * n t gp t m: [4382]1
     * n t xs: [4383]1
     * n tos to patrs mou: [4384]1
     * nlepsis: [4385]1
     * npempsen: [4386]1
     * nchthe: [4387]1
     * na: [4388]1 [4389]2 [4390]3 [4391]4
     * na pleroth: [4392]1
     * na poisosin atn basila: [4393]1
     * nabainnton: [4394]1
     * nakeimnon: [4395]1
     * natol: [4396]1 [4397]2
     * ndra: [4398]1
     * nechrese: [4399]1
     * nthomologesthai: [4400]1
     * noma: [4401]1
     * ntlutron pr pnton: [4402]1
     * ntilegmena: [4403]1
     * ntola: [4404]1
     * ntos: [4405]1
     * nothen: [4406]1
     * xtsato: [4407]1
     * xosa: [4408]1
     * xethamazon: [4409]1
     * xinrion: [4410]1
     * xousa: [4411]1 [4412]2
     * xousia: [4413]1
     * oika: [4414]1
     * ort: [4415]1
     * p' atos: [4416]1
     * p: [4417]1
     * p t telnion: [4418]1
     * p ts elabeas: [4419]1
     * pgo: [4420]1
     * pr pnton: [4421]1
     * prchomai: [4422]1
     * pspeiren: [4423]1
     * pstalkn me: [4424]1
     * psteilen: [4425]1 [4426]2
     * pespsthe: [4427]1
     * petmesen: [4428]1
     * pithuma: [4429]1
     * pithumn: [4430]1
     * pitimsas atos parngeile: [4431]1
     * pitrpo: [4432]1
     * poesan: [4433]1
     * poesen: [4434]1
     * podeigma: [4435]1
     * poios: [4436]1
     * polein: [4437]1
     * polnion: [4438]1
     * postllo: [4439]1
     * posungogos gnesthai.: [4440]1
     * pos: [4441]1
     * rtesan: [4442]1
     * ra poll.: [4443]1
     * ran,: [4444]1
     * rganon: [4445]1
     * remia: [4446]1
     * ristoi: [4447]1
     * riston: [4448]1 [4449]2
     * riston         depnon: [4450]1
     * rmenes ka prophtes: [4451]1
     * rmeneo: [4452]1
     * rch dnon: [4453]1
     * rchontes: [4454]1
     * rchon: [4455]1 [4456]2
     * rotso per mn: [4457]1
     * s gneto: [4458]1
     * sbestos: [4459]1
     * sthens: [4460]1
     * speire: [4461]1
     * str: [4462]1
     * storo: [4463]1
     * tgon: [4464]1
     * ti.: [4465]1
     * phlaxa: [4466]1
     * phmose: [4467]1
     * phelete: [4468]1
     * phedrn: [4469]1
     * phphath: [4470]1
     * chthon meglon: [4471]1
     * chortsthete: [4472]1
     * ps sabbton: [4473]1
     * psnion: [4474]1
     * psrion: [4475]1 [4476]2
     * psesth me: [4477]1
     * pson: [4478]1
     * Bblos katallags: [4479]1
     * Blos Katallags: [4480]1
     * Barachas: [4481]1
     * Baroch: [4482]1
     * Gerousa,: [4483]1
     * Didach tn ddeka postlon: [4484]1
     * Esseno: [4485]1
     * Zriou: [4486]1
     * Thes: [4487]1 [4488]2
     * Iriou: [4489]1
     * Kaphas: [4490]1
     * Kulls: [4491]1 [4492]2
     * Mpote: [4493]1
     * Nazoraos: [4494]1
     * Taleith kom: [4495]1
     * Christs Krios,: [4496]1
     * anios: [4497]1
     * arei - katharei: [4498]1
     * aresis: [4499]1
     * asthesis: [4500]1
     * atn: [4501]1 [4502]2
     * atsete: [4503]1
     * ate: [4504]1
     * ate mers tn martoln es tn ana: [4505]1
     * atines: [4506]1
     * atos: [4507]1 [4508]2
     * aonan ltrosin,: [4509]1
     * bbletai: [4510]1
     * bllein: [4511]1
     * bos: [4512]1
     * basileei -: [4513]1
     * basiles dkaios: [4514]1
     * basiles ernes: [4515]1
     * basilik dnamis: [4516]1
     * basiliks,: [4517]1
     * blasphema: [4518]1
     * bolimos: [4519]1
     * bouleuts: [4520]1
     * brphos: [4521]1
     * gr: [4522]1
     * gensia: [4523]1
     * gerousa,: [4524]1
     * geroussia: [4525]1
     * ginskeis: [4526]1
     * grmmata: [4527]1
     * grammates: [4528]1
     * gunaikons: [4529]1
     * dkaios: [4530]1 [4531]2
     * dxa: [4532]1
     * damon: [4533]1
     * daimnion: [4534]1
     * deigmatsai: [4535]1
     * dexamene: [4536]1
     * desmeo: [4537]1
     * demiourgo: [4538]1
     * di ge: [4539]1
     * di mlanos ka kalmou: [4540]1
     * di toto kleronoma aton des ka sktos ka pleia.: [4541]1
     * digesis: [4542]1
     * diagnorzo: [4543]1
     * diaknois -: [4544]1
     * dialogisms,: [4545]1
     * diaporeesthai: [4546]1
     * diasaphen: [4547]1
     * diaskorpzein: [4548]1
     * diaskorpzon: [4549]1
     * diaspero : [4550]1
     * diaspor: [4551]1
     * didaskala: [4552]1
     * diekluen: [4553]1
     * dieskrpise: [4554]1
     * diestelato: [4555]1
     * dikaimata: [4556]1
     * dikaiosne: [4557]1
     * dios: [4558]1
     * dolois: [4559]1
     * dunmeis: [4560]1
     * dunmeis, lgoi: [4561]1
     * dusm: [4562]1
     * egens: [4563]1
     * ekn: [4564]1
     * elabs: [4565]1
     * elogo: [4566]1
     * emarmne: [4567]1
     * es : [4568]1
     * es stn gaths: [4569]1
     * es atn: [4570]1
     * es ka t pn: [4571]1
     * es t mllon: [4572]1
     * esodos,: [4573]1
     * eschmon: [4574]1
     * echaristo: [4575]1
     * zthi: [4576]1
     * zsis: [4577]1
     * zo: [4578]1
     * ziznion: [4579]1
     * thlo: [4580]1
     * thros: [4581]1
     * theos lgos: [4582]1
     * thereo: [4583]1
     * theorn: [4584]1
     * theorte: [4585]1
     * theoro: [4586]1
     * theore: [4587]1 [4588]2 [4589]3
     * theoren: [4590]1
     * theoren): [4591]1
     * threnen : [4592]1
     * knsos: [4593]1
     * kpelos: [4594]1
     * kptesthai : [4595]1
     * krios: [4596]1 [4597]2 [4598]3
     * kphinoi: [4599]1
     * kphinos: [4600]1
     * ka: [4601]1 [4602]2
     * ka ats basiles dkaios didakts p Theo p' atos: [4603]1
     * ka atos: [4604]1
     * ka monn par' at poiesmetha: [4605]1
     * kairs: [4606]1 [4607]2
     * kal rga: [4608]1
     * kals: [4609]1
     * kat tn dan dnamin.: [4610]1
     * kat tn kribestten aresin: [4611]1
     * katluma: [4612]1 [4613]2 [4614]3 [4615]4
     * katluma.: [4616]1
     * katlusis: [4617]1
     * katcheen ato: [4618]1
     * katalo: [4619]1
     * katapasomen: [4620]1
     * katarge: [4621]1
     * katephlesen atn: [4622]1
     * katephilesen: [4623]1
     * kinen: [4624]1
     * kinen,: [4625]1
     * klisas,: [4626]1
     * kollubists: [4627]1
     * krnos: [4628]1
     * kraspedon: [4629]1
     * kubrnesis: [4630]1
     * komogrammates: [4631]1
     * lgoi: [4632]1
     * lgos: [4633]1 [4634]2
     * lgos paraklseos prs tn lan,: [4635]1
     * lgos spermatiks: [4636]1
     * ltras: [4637]1
     * ltron,: [4638]1
     * lala: [4639]1
     * lali: [4640]1
     * lerousa: [4641]1
     * limn: [4642]1
     * m: [4643]1
     * m philen tn krio: [4644]1
     * masabbton: [4645]1
     * mthesis, skesis, ephua: [4646]1
     * mlos nils: [4647]1
     * mron: [4648]1
     * mse: [4649]1
     * makrioi: [4650]1
     * met thrnon: [4651]1
     * met trannon.: [4652]1
     * met tata: [4653]1
     * met toto: [4654]1
     * metamlomai: [4655]1
     * metanoo: [4656]1
     * metanoia: [4657]1
     * meteorzein: [4658]1
     * mongillos: [4659]1
     * mogillos: [4660]1
     * morph: [4661]1
     * mou: [4662]1
     * nas: [4663]1 [4664]2
     * nestea,: [4665]1
     * nos: [4666]1 [4667]2
     * nomiks: [4668]1
     * nomodids kalos,: [4669]1
     * x ptropos x: [4670]1
     * x sunkura x: [4671]1
     * xnios: [4672]1
     * xsma: [4673]1
     * xenia: [4674]1
     * o m: [4675]1 [4676]2
     * o pa ato: [4677]1
     * o: [4678]1
     * okti theoret me: [4679]1
     * on: [4680]1 [4681]2
     * oros: [4682]1
     * otines: [4683]1
     * pmpo: [4684]1
     * pmpo ms: [4685]1
     * pn: [4686]1
     * pn : [4687]1
     * prnoi: [4688]1
     * pros: [4689]1
     * ps: [4690]1 [4691]2
     * pa kenon: [4692]1
     * paesa: [4693]1
     * palin: [4694]1
     * pandocheon: [4695]1
     * par: [4696]1
     * par tn grn: [4697]1
     * par tn dn,: [4698]1
     * pardosis: [4699]1
     * pardosis tn presbutron: [4700]1
     * parabllo,: [4701]1
     * parabol: [4702]1
     * paradeigmatzo: [4703]1
     * parakosas: [4704]1
     * paralambnetai: [4705]1
     * paraskeu: [4706]1
     * paraskeu to pscha: [4707]1
     * paratthemi: [4708]1
     * parthnos: [4709]1
     * paroima: [4710]1
     * parousa: [4711]1
     * parresa: [4712]1
     * patr sunagogs: [4713]1
     * petho: [4714]1
     * peletho nas,: [4715]1
     * periespto: [4716]1
     * perisseuthsetai.: [4717]1
     * pinakdion: [4718]1
     * pists: [4719]1
     * pistesai: [4720]1
     * pistik: [4721]1
     * plthos tn sthenonton: [4722]1
     * pltanos: [4723]1
     * pnema: [4724]1
     * pomaine: [4725]1
     * poietik dnamis: [4726]1
     * poimnes: [4727]1
     * poreesthai: [4728]1
     * poreomai: [4729]1
     * prthumon: [4730]1
     * prs t den: [4731]1
     * prsopon: [4732]1
     * prasi: [4733]1
     * prasia prasia,: [4734]1
     * presbutrion: [4735]1
     * proseknesen.: [4736]1
     * proseuch: [4737]1
     * prophthno: [4738]1
     * pro: [4739]1 [4740]2
     * ptergion: [4741]1
     * ptergion to ero: [4742]1
     * pugm: [4743]1 [4744]2
     * s odas ti phl se: [4745]1
     * snesis: [4746]1
     * sarbd: [4747]1
     * sapharbd: [4748]1
     * se: [4749]1
     * semeon: [4750]1
     * sindn.: [4751]1
     * skelokopa: [4752]1
     * sors: [4753]1
     * sopha: [4754]1
     * spera: [4755]1
     * sperontos: [4756]1
     * spekoultor,: [4757]1
     * spurs: [4758]1
     * stle: [4759]1
     * stegans: [4760]1
     * stenzo: [4761]1
     * strati: [4762]1
     * sunkura: [4763]1 [4764]2
     * sumpsia: [4765]1
     * sundrion: [4766]1
     * sundrion.: [4767]1
     * sunarei lgon: [4768]1
     * sunagog: [4769]1
     * sunairein: [4770]1
     * sphara: [4771]1
     * schol: [4772]1
     * sotrion: [4773]1
     * t: [4774]1
     * t ksmo: [4775]1 [4776]2
     * t pnema: [4777]1
     * tknon: [4778]1
     * tn dena: [4779]1
     * tn charn tn mn: [4780]1
     * tpos: [4781]1 [4782]2
     * ts letheas: [4783]1
     * ts megaloprepos dxes: [4784]1
     * ts sunteleas to aonos.: [4785]1
     * tte: [4786]1
     * taleith: [4787]1
     * tameon: [4788]1
     * teliks: [4789]1
     * terss: [4790]1
     * teren: [4791]1
     * tis,: [4792]1
     * to d m chontos.: [4793]1
     * to katharismo atn: [4794]1
     * to nao: [4795]1
     * to purs,: [4796]1
     * to sperantos: [4797]1
     * tolmsas.: [4798]1
     * topogrammates: [4799]1
     * topos,: [4800]1
     * trapeztes: [4801]1
     * phrousin: [4802]1
     * phagen t pscha: [4803]1
     * phila: [4804]1
     * philen: [4805]1 [4806]2
     * philoxena, : [4807]1
     * philosopha: [4808]1
     * phrnesis: [4809]1
     * chare: [4810]1
     * chitn: [4811]1
     * choron: [4812]1
     * psuch: [4813]1 [4814]2
     * psuch noer: [4815]1
     * (k mrous propheteomen: [4816]1
     * (blpei): [4817]1
     * (zelotai): [4818]1
     __________________________________________________________________

Index of Pages of the Print Edition

   [4819]i  [4820]ii  [4821]iii  [4822]i.3  [4823]i.i.17  [4824]i.i.31
   [4825]i.i.40  [4826]i.i.58  [4827]i.75  [4828]i.84  [4829]i.93
   [4830]i.111  [4831]ii.121  [4832]i.133  [4833]i.144  [4834]i.160
   [4835]i.180  [4836]i.191  [4837]i.202  [4838]i.217  [4839]i.235
   [4840]i.255  [4841]i.275  [4842]i.291  [4843]i.308  [4844]i.336
   [4845]i.351  [4846]i.364  [4847]i.377  [4848]i.390  [4849]i.404
   [4850]i.422  [4851]i.430  [4852]i.452  [4853]i.460  [4854]i.470
   [4855]i.478  [4856]i.489  [4857]i.499  [4858]i.507  [4859]i.524
   [4860]i.542  [4861]i.552  [4862]i.561  [4863]i.570  [4864]i.578
   [4865]i.599  [4866]i.606  [4867]i.616  [4868]i.635  [4869]i.654
   [4870]i.676  [4871]i.686  [4872]ii.3  [4873]ii.25  [4874]ii.37
   [4875]ii.44  [4876]ii.51  [4877]ii.63  [4878]ii.72  [4879]ii.91
   [4880]ii.102  [4881]ii.110  [4882]ii.126  [4883]ii.135  [4884]ii.148
   [4885]ii.156  [4886]ii.164  [4887]ii.177  [4888]ii.188  [4889]ii.195
   [4890]ii.204  [4891]ii.214  [4892]ii.226  [4893]ii.233  [4894]ii.243
   [4895]ii.253  [4896]ii.264  [4897]ii.284  [4898]ii.298  [4899]ii.308
   [4900]ii.327  [4901]ii.338  [4902]ii.349  [4903]ii.361  [4904]ii.363
   [4905]ii.374  [4906]ii.380  [4907]ii.396  [4908]ii.415  [4909]ii.431
   [4910]ii.453  [4911]ii.468  [4912]ii.479  [4913]ii.490  [4914]ii.513
   [4915]ii.533  [4916]ii.546  [4917]ii.565  [4918]ii.582  [4919]ii.621
   [4920]ii.630  [4921]ii.655  [4922]ii.659  [4923]ii.665  [4924]ii.667
   [4925]ii.683  [4926]ii.701  [4927]ii.704  [4928]ii.706  [4929]ii.710
   [4930]ii.742  [4931]ii.744  [4932]ii.745  [4933]ii.748  [4934]ii.764
   [4935]ii.767  [4936]ii.770  [4937]ii.777  [4938]ii.788  [4939]ii.791
     __________________________________________________________________

            This document is from the Christian Classics Ethereal
               Library at Calvin College, http://www.ccel.org,
                   generated on demand from ThML source.

References

   1. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=1&scrV=0#xi.ix-p56.1
   2. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=1&scrV=1#vii.v-p205.1
   3. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=1&scrV=2#vi.ii-p53.3
   4. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=1&scrV=2#vii.xii-p54.1
   5. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=1&scrV=2#xi.ix-p171.1
   6. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=1&scrV=4#xi.ix-p248.9
   7. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=1&scrV=7#vi.iv-p71.1
   8. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=1&scrV=26#vii.v-p205.1
   9. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=1&scrV=27#vi.iv-p55.1
  10. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=1&scrV=27#xi.ii-p23.2
  11. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=1&scrV=31#ix.xviii-p65.2
  12. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=2&scrV=3#viii.xxxv-p8.1
  13. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=2&scrV=3#ix.iii-p33.1
  14. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=2&scrV=4#vi.iv-p72.1
  15. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=2&scrV=4#xi.ix-p6.1
  16. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=2&scrV=4#xi.ix-p6.3
  17. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=2&scrV=4#xi.ix-p6.8
  18. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=2&scrV=4#xi.ix-p38.1
  19. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=2&scrV=4#xi.ix-p58.1
  20. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=2&scrV=4#xi.ix-p61.1
  21. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=2&scrV=4#xi.ix-p197.1
  22. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=2&scrV=4#xi.ix-p269.1
  23. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=2&scrV=4#xi.ix-p340.1
  24. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=2&scrV=7#vii.v-p43.1
  25. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=2&scrV=7#xi.xii-p53.1
  26. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=2&scrV=8#xi.ii-p27.2
  27. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=2&scrV=10#ix.xviii-p144.2
  28. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=2&scrV=10#xi.ii-p27.2
  29. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=2&scrV=24#xi.ii-p27.2
  30. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=3&scrV=3#xi.xii-p48.1
  31. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=3&scrV=8#xi.ii-p19.1
  32. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=3&scrV=8#xi.ix-p6.6
  33. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=3&scrV=9#vi.iv-p24.7
  34. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=3&scrV=10#xi.ii-p19.1
  35. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=3&scrV=13#vii.v-p3.1
  36. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=3&scrV=15#vii.v-p11.1
  37. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=3&scrV=15#vii.xi-p83.1
  38. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=3&scrV=15#viii.iii-p44.1
  39. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=3&scrV=15#xi.ix-p6.16
  40. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=3&scrV=17#xi.ix-p6.7
  41. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=3&scrV=19#x.iv-p12.1
  42. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=3&scrV=19#xi.ix-p6.5
  43. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=3&scrV=21#ix.xviii-p65.3
  44. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=3&scrV=22#xi.ix-p301.1
  45. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=3&scrV=24#ix.xviii-p144.1
  46. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=4&scrV=3#xi.ii-p29.2
  47. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=4&scrV=6#xi.ii-p29.2
  48. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=4&scrV=25#vii.v-p202.1
  49. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=4&scrV=25#xi.ix-p62.1
  50. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=4&scrV=25#xi.ix-p95.1
  51. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=5&scrV=3#xi.xii-p61.1
  52. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=5&scrV=24#vi.ii-p52.4
  53. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=5&scrV=24#xi.xii-p26.3
  54. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=5&scrV=24#xi.ii-p24.2
  55. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=5&scrV=24#xi.ii-p28.2
  56. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=5&scrV=24#xi.ii-p31.1
  57. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=6&scrV=6#xi.ii-p25.2
  58. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=6&scrV=9#viii.xi-p51.1
  59. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=7&scrV=16#xi.ii-p15.1
  60. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=7&scrV=16#xi.ii-p18.1
  61. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=7&scrV=19#viii.viii-p64.2
  62. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=8&scrV=22#vii.viii-p59.17
  63. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=9&scrV=4#vi.ii-p52.1
  64. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=9&scrV=27#xi.ii-p11.7
  65. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=11&scrV=0#xi.xii-p24.2
  66. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=12&scrV=2#viii.xxx-p55.2
  67. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=12&scrV=3#viii.x-p119.1
  68. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=12&scrV=5#xi.xii-p7.1
  69. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=12&scrV=5#x.iv-p134.1
  70. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=13&scrV=3#viii.xxvii-p62.1
  71. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=14&scrV=1#viii.xxvii-p131.1
  72. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=14&scrV=2#vii.v-p85.1
  73. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=14&scrV=5#viii.xxviii-p43.1
  74. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=14&scrV=22#xi.ix-p232.1
  75. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=15&scrV=0#vii.vii-p48.3
  76. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=15&scrV=0#ix.viii-p109.1
  77. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=15&scrV=13#xi.ix-p370.19
  78. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=15&scrV=17#ix.viii-p107.1
  79. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=15&scrV=18#vii.vii-p5.2
  80. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=16&scrV=13#xi.ii-p10.3
  81. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=17&scrV=0#xi.ix-p15.1
  82. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=17&scrV=17#vii.iii-p46.1
  83. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=17&scrV=22#xi.ii-p11.3
  84. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=18&scrV=4#viii.xxi-p50.1
  85. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=18&scrV=4#xi.ix-p196.1
  86. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=18&scrV=4#x.vi-p59.1
  87. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=18&scrV=4#xi.ix-p162.2
  88. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=18&scrV=4#xi.ix-p180.1
  89. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=18&scrV=4#xi.ix-p208.1
  90. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=18&scrV=4#xi.ix-p319.2
  91. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=18&scrV=5#xi.v-p10.1
  92. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=18&scrV=6#viii.xxiii-p121.1
  93. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=18&scrV=7#xi.ix-p165.1
  94. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=19&scrV=1#vii.viii-p15.1
  95. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=19&scrV=32#vii.v-p200.1
  96. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=21&scrV=4#vii.iv-p90.4
  97. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=22&scrV=1#xi.xii-p51.1
  98. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=22&scrV=3#xi.ii-p9.3
  99. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=22&scrV=4#x.xvii-p11.1
 100. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=22&scrV=6#viii.xxvii-p124.1
 101. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=22&scrV=7#x.xvii-p12.1
 102. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=22&scrV=7#viii.x-p155.5
 103. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=22&scrV=17#viii.xiv-p44.1
 104. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=22&scrV=18#xi.ix-p186.1
 105. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=23&scrV=15#ix.iii-p10.1
 106. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=25&scrV=27#viii.x-p11.1
 107. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=26&scrV=5#vii.iii-p22.5
 108. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=26&scrV=5#xi.ii-p16.1
 109. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=26&scrV=19#viii.viii-p37.1
 110. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=27&scrV=19#vi.iv-p12.1
 111. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=27&scrV=25#x.vi-p99.1
 112. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=28&scrV=9#viii.iv-p10.1
 113. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=28&scrV=11#xi.ii-p9.4
 114. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=28&scrV=11#xi.ii-p9.5
 115. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=28&scrV=15#xi.ix-p369.3
 116. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=28&scrV=21#vi.iv-p44.1
 117. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=28&scrV=21#xi.ii-p15.2
 118. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=31&scrV=19#xi.xv-p14.1
 119. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=33&scrV=1#xi.ix-p268.1
 120. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=33&scrV=18#viii.viii-p5.1
 121. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=33&scrV=20#vi.iii-p34.3
 122. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=35&scrV=2#vii.xi-p147.1
 123. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=35&scrV=4#viii.vii-p60.5
 124. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=35&scrV=21#vii.vi-p30.1
 125. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=36&scrV=3#viii.iv-p10.2
 126. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=38&scrV=1#vii.v-p162.1
 127. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=38&scrV=2#vii.v-p162.2
 128. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=38&scrV=18#xi.ix-p170.1
 129. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=38&scrV=26#vii.xii-p46.1
 130. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=38&scrV=26#vii.xii-p48.1
 131. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=40&scrV=19#ix.viii-p61.2
 132. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=43&scrV=14#xi.ix-p167.2
 133. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=44&scrV=8#ix.xix-p17.1
 134. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=46&scrV=23#ix.xviii-p65.4
 135. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=46&scrV=27#xi.ii-p31.3
 136. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=46&scrV=28#viii.xxxii-p60.2
 137. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=48&scrV=0#viii.xvii-p71.1
 138. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=48&scrV=16#ix.xi-p18.1
 139. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=48&scrV=22#viii.viii-p3.1
 140. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=48&scrV=22#viii.viii-p3.2
 141. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=49&scrV=1#vii.v-p103.1
 142. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=49&scrV=10#vi.ii-p63.2
 143. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=49&scrV=10#vii.iv-p69.6
 144. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=49&scrV=10#vii.v-p110.1
 145. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=49&scrV=10#xi.ix-p370.3
 146. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=49&scrV=10#xi.ix-p175.1
 147. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=49&scrV=10#vi.iv-p50.1
 148. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=49&scrV=11#vii.xi-p117.1
 149. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=49&scrV=11#xi.ix-p23.8
 150. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=49&scrV=11#xi.ix-p361.3
 151. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=49&scrV=18#xi.ix-p35.2
 152. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=49&scrV=19#xi.viii-p4.1
 153. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gen&scrCh=49&scrV=19#xi.viii-p5.1
 154. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=1&scrV=21#xi.ii-p27.3
 155. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=2&scrV=5#xi.xii-p7.3
 156. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=2&scrV=5#xi.ix-p190.1
 157. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=2&scrV=15#viii.xxvii-p91.1
 158. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=2&scrV=15#xi.xii-p35.2
 159. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=2&scrV=20#xi.viii-p17.2
 160. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=2&scrV=23#xi.ii-p28.3
 161. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=2&scrV=25#xi.ii-p16.2
 162. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=3&scrV=1#ix.xvii-p25.1
 163. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=3&scrV=1#xi.ii-p11.4
 164. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=3&scrV=2#viii.xiv-p39.1
 165. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=3&scrV=6#xi.ii-p11.4
 166. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=3&scrV=12#vii.iv-p80.1
 167. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=3&scrV=12#xi.ii-p19.2
 168. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=3&scrV=14#vi.iv-p24.8
 169. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=4&scrV=11#xi.xii-p35.4
 170. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=4&scrV=12#viii.vi-p28.3
 171. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=4&scrV=15#xi.ii-p29.3
 172. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=4&scrV=18#vii.vii-p48.1
 173. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=4&scrV=18#xi.xii-p7.4
 174. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=4&scrV=22#vii.viii-p88.1
 175. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=4&scrV=22#viii.xvii-p82.5
 176. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=4&scrV=22#xi.ix-p115.1
 177. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=4&scrV=24#vi.iv-p47.1
 178. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=4&scrV=24#vii.vi-p24.7
 179. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=6&scrV=0#xi.viii-p5.4
 180. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=6&scrV=3#xi.ii-p24.3
 181. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=6&scrV=4#x.iv-p52.1
 182. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=6&scrV=9#ix.xix-p17.2
 183. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=6&scrV=12#ix.xix-p17.2
 184. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=10&scrV=23#vi.ii-p52.5
 185. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=12&scrV=0#ix.i-p55.1
 186. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=12&scrV=2#xi.ix-p174.1
 187. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=12&scrV=2#xi.ix-p187.2
 188. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=12&scrV=2#xi.ix-p217.1
 189. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=12&scrV=2#xi.ix-p237.1
 190. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=12&scrV=2#xi.ix-p307.2
 191. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=12&scrV=3#xi.v-p57.14
 192. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=12&scrV=6#x.x-p3.1
 193. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=12&scrV=6#xi.v-p57.14
 194. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=12&scrV=37#vii.v-p106.1
 195. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=12&scrV=42#vii.vi-p52.1
 196. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=12&scrV=42#vii.v-p159.1
 197. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=12&scrV=44#xi.xii-p5.1
 198. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=12&scrV=46#x.xv-p197.1
 199. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=13&scrV=1#vi.vi-p22.1
 200. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=13&scrV=1#viii.xxxi-p116.2
 201. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=13&scrV=1#x.iv-p95.1
 202. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=13&scrV=9#viii.xxvi-p82.1
 203. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=13&scrV=9#x.iv-p94.1
 204. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=13&scrV=14#ix.xx-p36.1
 205. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=13&scrV=16#viii.xxvi-p82.1
 206. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=13&scrV=16#x.iv-p94.1
 207. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=13&scrV=19#xi.ii-p25.3
 208. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=14&scrV=8#viii.xxvi-p46.1
 209. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=15&scrV=0#xi.ix-p132.1
 210. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=15&scrV=1#vii.v-p83.1
 211. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=15&scrV=1#viii.xix-p58.1
 212. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=15&scrV=2#viii.xxiii-p135.5
 213. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=15&scrV=8#ix.xi-p51.1
 214. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=15&scrV=11#vii.x-p23.1
 215. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=15&scrV=11#viii.xvii-p54.1
 216. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=15&scrV=26#viii.xxiii-p135.4
 217. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=16&scrV=33#xi.viii-p9.3
 218. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=16&scrV=33#xi.viii-p16.1
 219. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=17&scrV=7#xi.ii-p11.8
 220. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=17&scrV=16#vii.xi-p100.4
 221. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=17&scrV=16#xi.ii-p10.1
 222. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=17&scrV=16#xi.ii-p11.8
 223. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=18&scrV=4#xi.xii-p35.1
 224. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=18&scrV=6#xi.xii-p7.5
 225. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=18&scrV=7#viii.xxi-p50.4
 226. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=18&scrV=27#vii.xii-p4.2
 227. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=18&scrV=27#xi.xii-p7.5
 228. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=19&scrV=0#vi.ii-p55.1
 229. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=19&scrV=3#viii.xviii-p26.1
 230. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=19&scrV=4#x.x-p63.2
 231. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=19&scrV=5#xi.ii-p18.2
 232. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=19&scrV=10#vii.xi-p148.1
 233. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=19&scrV=10#vii.xi-p149.1
 234. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=19&scrV=14#vii.xi-p148.1
 235. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=19&scrV=14#vii.xi-p149.1
 236. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=19&scrV=17#viii.xviii-p49.1
 237. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=19&scrV=18#xi.ii-p10.4
 238. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=20&scrV=1#vi.viii-p56.1
 239. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=20&scrV=2#vi.v-p59.1
 240. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=20&scrV=4#vi.vii-p32.1
 241. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=20&scrV=8#viii.xxxv-p7.1
 242. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=20&scrV=8#xi.xvi-p48.1
 243. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=20&scrV=10#vi.ii-p9.1
 244. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=20&scrV=12#x.v-p35.1
 245. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=20&scrV=21#vi.iv-p24.9
 246. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=20&scrV=21#ix.iii-p104.3
 247. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=20&scrV=23#xi.xii-p35.6
 248. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=21&scrV=0#viii.xviii-p28.1
 249. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=21&scrV=1#xi.ix-p240.1
 250. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=21&scrV=2#vii.xi-p138.1
 251. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=21&scrV=17#viii.xxxi-p157.1
 252. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=21&scrV=28#viii.ii-p111.1
 253. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=22&scrV=1#ix.xxiv-p21.1
 254. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=22&scrV=3#ix.xix-p74.1
 255. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=22&scrV=24#viii.x-p155.1
 256. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=22&scrV=26#xi.ix-p357.1
 257. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=23&scrV=5#ix.xv-p25.1
 258. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=23&scrV=5#ix.xv-p27.1
 259. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=23&scrV=7#viii.xvii-p82.1
 260. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=23&scrV=20#vi.iv-p48.5
 261. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=23&scrV=20#xi.viii-p5.3
 262. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=23&scrV=20#xi.viii-p17.3
 263. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=23&scrV=28#viii.vii-p58.2
 264. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=24&scrV=1#xi.xii-p26.1
 265. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=24&scrV=1#xi.xii-p27.1
 266. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=24&scrV=5#vii.xi-p149.2
 267. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=24&scrV=10#vii.xii-p9.6
 268. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=24&scrV=12#vi.viii-p57.1
 269. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=25&scrV=3#xi.ix-p248.3
 270. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=26&scrV=15#xi.ix-p105.1
 271. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=27&scrV=20#viii.x-p48.1
 272. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=30&scrV=6#vii.iii-p33.1
 273. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=30&scrV=13#ix.iii-p7.1
 274. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=31&scrV=2#xi.viii-p4.2
 275. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=31&scrV=13#viii.xxxv-p56.1
 276. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=32&scrV=6#xi.ix-p207.1
 277. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=32&scrV=16#ix.viii-p69.1
 278. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=32&scrV=22#vii.v-p48.1
 279. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=32&scrV=32#ix.v-p55.1
 280. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=33&scrV=21#xi.xii-p26.2
 281. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=33&scrV=21#xi.ii-p9.6
 282. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=33&scrV=22#xi.viii-p8.1
 283. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=34&scrV=14#viii.xviii-p89.2
 284. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=34&scrV=27#vi.viii-p60.1
 285. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=35&scrV=1#xi.xvi-p27.1
 286. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=36&scrV=0#vi.v-p66.1
 287. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=36&scrV=6#xi.xvi-p11.1
 288. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=40&scrV=9#vii.xi-p82.1
 289. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=40&scrV=10#xi.viii-p5.2
 290. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Exod&scrCh=40&scrV=11#vii.xi-p82.1
 291. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=1&scrV=0#vii.ix-p117.1
 292. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=1&scrV=1#xi.ii-p24.4
 293. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=1&scrV=1#xi.ii-p27.4
 294. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=1&scrV=2#viii.xxxi-p130.1
 295. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=2&scrV=13#viii.xvi-p33.1
 296. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=2&scrV=13#ix.iii-p81.1
 297. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=4&scrV=25#xi.v-p57.15
 298. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=4&scrV=30#xi.v-p57.15
 299. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=4&scrV=34#xi.v-p57.15
 300. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=5&scrV=1#v-p44.1
 301. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=6&scrV=23#viii.v-p23.2
 302. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=6&scrV=23#viii.v-p23.3
 303. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=8&scrV=35#xi.ii-p18.3
 304. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=9&scrV=4#xi.ii-p11.5
 305. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=9&scrV=6#xi.ii-p11.5
 306. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=9&scrV=23#xi.ii-p11.5
 307. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=11&scrV=22#vii.xii-p10.1
 308. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=11&scrV=33#xi.v-p57.1
 309. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=11&scrV=34#v-p48.1
 310. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=11&scrV=38#v-p48.1
 311. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=11&scrV=44#viii.xxxi-p60.1
 312. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=12&scrV=0#vii.vii-p15.1
 313. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=12&scrV=4#vii.vii-p16.1
 314. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=13&scrV=45#viii.xv-p19.1
 315. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=14&scrV=5#viii.viii-p37.2
 316. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=14&scrV=29#xi.xiv-p14.6
 317. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=15&scrV=11#viii.xxxi-p58.1
 318. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=16&scrV=16#viii.xxxi-p118.1
 319. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=16&scrV=30#viii.xvii-p37.2
 320. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=18&scrV=5#viii.xxvii-p106.1
 321. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=18&scrV=5#viii.xxxv-p45.1
 322. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=18&scrV=30#xi.ii-p16.3
 323. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=18&scrV=30#xi.ii-p29.4
 324. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=19&scrV=0#xi.xiii-p7.1
 325. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=19&scrV=18#ix.xv-p16.1
 326. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=19&scrV=18#ix.xv-p17.1
 327. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=19&scrV=18#ix.xxiii-p14.1
 328. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=19&scrV=19#v-p43.1
 329. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=19&scrV=19#vi.ii-p52.2
 330. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=19&scrV=23#v-p62.1
 331. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=19&scrV=24#vi.vii-p14.1
 332. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=19&scrV=24#xi.xvi-p28.1
 333. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=19&scrV=26#x.xv-p17.1
 334. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=20&scrV=5#viii.xvii-p92.1
 335. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=20&scrV=23#xi.ii-p19.3
 336. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=22&scrV=10#viii.xxxv-p52.1
 337. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=22&scrV=32#viii.xviii-p89.3
 338. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=23&scrV=0#x.x-p3.2
 339. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=23&scrV=11#viii.ii-p96.1
 340. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=23&scrV=15#viii.ii-p96.1
 341. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=23&scrV=16#viii.ii-p96.1
 342. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=23&scrV=40#ix.vii-p8.1
 343. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=23&scrV=40#ix.vii-p9.1
 344. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=23&scrV=40#ix.vii-p9.2
 345. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=25&scrV=23#viii.xxvii-p95.1
 346. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=25&scrV=39#ix.xix-p74.2
 347. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=25&scrV=47#ix.xix-p74.2
 348. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=26&scrV=0#xi.v-p24.1
 349. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=26&scrV=13#xi.ix-p6.12
 350. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=26&scrV=44#xi.ii-p28.4
 351. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lev&scrCh=27&scrV=10#v-p85.1
 352. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=1&scrV=0#vii.ix-p117.2
 353. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=1&scrV=16#vii.viii-p29.4
 354. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=2&scrV=32#xi.ix-p17.1
 355. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=2&scrV=32#xi.ix-p288.1
 356. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=3&scrV=16#xi.ii-p27.5
 357. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=3&scrV=39#xi.ii-p16.4
 358. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=3&scrV=39#xi.ii-p27.5
 359. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=3&scrV=51#xi.ii-p16.4
 360. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=3&scrV=51#xi.ii-p27.5
 361. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=5&scrV=3#xi.ii-p11.9
 362. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=5&scrV=19#xi.v-p57.16
 363. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=6&scrV=23#viii.x-p102.1
 364. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=6&scrV=24#xi.xii-p66.1
 365. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=6&scrV=24#vii.iii-p49.1
 366. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=6&scrV=26#xi.ix-p168.1
 367. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=6&scrV=27#viii.x-p109.1
 368. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=6&scrV=27#viii.x-p119.2
 369. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=6&scrV=27#xi.ii-p29.5
 370. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=7&scrV=0#ix.xvii-p60.1
 371. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=7&scrV=14#vii.v-p154.3
 372. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=7&scrV=14#vii.v-p154.5
 373. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=7&scrV=48#xi.ix-p102.1
 374. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=8&scrV=0#ix.xvii-p60.2
 375. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=9&scrV=3#x.x-p3.3
 376. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=9&scrV=5#x.x-p3.3
 377. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=9&scrV=12#x.xv-p197.2
 378. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=10&scrV=19#vii.ix-p48.1
 379. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=10&scrV=35#viii.xxxi-p82.1
 380. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=10&scrV=36#xi.ii-p11.6
 381. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=11&scrV=12#xi.ix-p232.2
 382. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=11&scrV=16#vi.iv-p52.1
 383. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=11&scrV=16#ix.v-p8.1
 384. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=11&scrV=20#xi.ii-p18.4
 385. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=12&scrV=1#xi.ix-p29.10
 386. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=12&scrV=14#ix.xix-p17.3
 387. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=14&scrV=9#xi.ii-p19.4
 388. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=14&scrV=14#xi.ii-p10.2
 389. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=14&scrV=27#viii.x-p30.1
 390. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=14&scrV=30#xi.ii-p28.5
 391. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=15&scrV=17#v-p26.1
 392. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=15&scrV=31#viii.vii-p121.1
 393. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=15&scrV=31#x.iv-p13.1
 394. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=15&scrV=37#vi.vi-p22.3
 395. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=15&scrV=37#vii.iii-p12.2
 396. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=15&scrV=37#viii.x-p78.2
 397. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=15&scrV=38#viii.xxvi-p74.1
 398. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=15&scrV=38#vii.xii-p9.4
 399. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=15&scrV=38#vii.xii-p9.2
 400. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=15&scrV=38#viii.xxvi-p70.1
 401. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=16&scrV=1#vii.xii-p9.5
 402. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=16&scrV=2#viii.xxvi-p73.1
 403. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=18&scrV=16#vii.vii-p11.1
 404. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=19&scrV=2#x.i-p15.1
 405. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=21&scrV=6#vii.xii-p48.2
 406. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=21&scrV=8#viii.vi-p38.1
 407. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=23&scrV=9#viii.xxxvii-p54.1
 408. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=23&scrV=15#xi.ii-p24.5
 409. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=23&scrV=19#vi.iv-p7.2
 410. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=23&scrV=19#viii.xvi-p43.1
 411. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=23&scrV=19#viii.xvi-p43.2
 412. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=23&scrV=19#viii.xxx-p51.1
 413. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=23&scrV=21#vi.iv-p45.1
 414. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=23&scrV=21#xi.ii-p24.5
 415. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=24&scrV=7#vi.ii-p63.3
 416. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=24&scrV=7#vi.vi-p44.1
 417. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=24&scrV=7#vii.v-p110.2
 418. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=24&scrV=14#vii.xi-p83.2
 419. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=24&scrV=17#vi.ii-p63.3
 420. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=24&scrV=17#vi.iv-p50.2
 421. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=24&scrV=17#vii.viii-p40.1
 422. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=24&scrV=17#vii.viii-p41.1
 423. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=24&scrV=17#vii.viii-p43.1
 424. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=24&scrV=17#vii.v-p110.2
 425. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=24&scrV=17#x.vi-p31.1
 426. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=24&scrV=17#xi.ix-p35.1
 427. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=24&scrV=21#xi.xii-p7.6
 428. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=24&scrV=23#vi.ii-p63.3
 429. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=25&scrV=4#vii.iv-p63.4
 430. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=27&scrV=16#vii.v-p182.1
 431. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=27&scrV=20#xi.ix-p87.1
 432. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=28&scrV=5#xi.v-p57.2
 433. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=31&scrV=2#xi.v-p10.2
 434. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=31&scrV=23#vii.xi-p141.2
 435. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=31&scrV=23#viii.xxxi-p119.2
 436. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=32&scrV=36#viii.xxviii-p28.1
 437. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Num&scrCh=32&scrV=41#viii.xxvi-p9.1
 438. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=1&scrV=0#xi.ii-p11.10
 439. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=1&scrV=1#xi.ii-p23.3
 440. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=1&scrV=1#xi.ii-p25.4
 441. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=1&scrV=1#xi.ix-p200.1
 442. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=1&scrV=1#xi.ix-p259.1
 443. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=1&scrV=1#xi.ix-p266.1
 444. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=1&scrV=5#vi.viii-p66.1
 445. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=1&scrV=8#viii.ii-p66.1
 446. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=1&scrV=10#xi.ii-p27.6
 447. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=1&scrV=26#xi.ii-p16.5
 448. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=1&scrV=26#xi.ii-p29.6
 449. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=1&scrV=30#xi.ii-p19.5
 450. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=1&scrV=30#xi.ii-p27.6
 451. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=1&scrV=31#vi.iv-p7.3
 452. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=1&scrV=32#xi.ii-p18.5
 453. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=1&scrV=32#xi.ii-p29.6
 454. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=1&scrV=43#xi.ii-p27.6
 455. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=3&scrV=9#ix.i-p13.1
 456. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=3&scrV=25#ix.xvii-p33.1
 457. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=4&scrV=4#vi.vi-p19.1
 458. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=4&scrV=5#viii.xxvii-p50.1
 459. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=4&scrV=7#viii.xxxi-p116.5
 460. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=4&scrV=11#ix.xi-p51.2
 461. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=4&scrV=40#vii.iii-p22.6
 462. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=5&scrV=12#xi.xvi-p48.2
 463. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=6&scrV=4#vii.xi-p89.1
 464. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=6&scrV=4#viii.xviii-p89.1
 465. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=6&scrV=4#vi.vi-p22.2
 466. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=6&scrV=4#vii.iii-p12.1
 467. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=6&scrV=4#viii.x-p78.1
 468. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=6&scrV=4#ix.v-p74.1
 469. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=6&scrV=4#x.iv-p95.2
 470. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=6&scrV=4#viii.xxxi-p116.3
 471. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=6&scrV=5#ix.xv-p15.2
 472. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=6&scrV=7#xi.v-p57.17
 473. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=6&scrV=8#viii.xxvi-p82.2
 474. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=6&scrV=8#x.iv-p94.2
 475. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=6&scrV=9#xi.v-p57.17
 476. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=6&scrV=20#xi.v-p57.17
 477. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=7&scrV=13#xi.ix-p69.1
 478. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=8&scrV=3#vi.iv-p49.3
 479. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=8&scrV=3#xi.ii-p28.6
 480. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=8&scrV=3#xi.ix-p370.17
 481. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=10&scrV=0#xi.ii-p31.2
 482. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=10&scrV=17#viii-p9.1
 483. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=11&scrV=9#x.iv-p51.1
 484. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=11&scrV=13#vii.xi-p89.2
 485. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=11&scrV=21#xi.ix-p370.22
 486. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=11&scrV=26#viii.ii-p84.1
 487. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=13&scrV=0#viii.xxxvi-p29.1
 488. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=13&scrV=17#viii.xxvii-p58.1
 489. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=14&scrV=21#vi.ii-p9.2
 490. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=14&scrV=22#v-p47.1
 491. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=14&scrV=22#viii.i-p60.2
 492. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=15&scrV=7#viii.x-p155.2
 493. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=16&scrV=1#x.xiv-p18.1
 494. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=17&scrV=6#x.xiii-p93.1
 495. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=17&scrV=11#viii.ii-p58.2
 496. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=17&scrV=15#vii.i-p63.1
 497. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=18&scrV=15#viii.vii-p125.1
 498. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=18&scrV=15#viii.iii-p23.1
 499. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=18&scrV=15#ix.i-p59.1
 500. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=18&scrV=15#xi.xiii-p3.1
 501. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=18&scrV=18#viii.vii-p125.1
 502. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=18&scrV=18#viii.iii-p23.1
 503. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=18&scrV=18#xi.xiii-p3.1
 504. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=19&scrV=21#viii.ii-p109.1
 505. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=19&scrV=34#xi.xii-p64.1
 506. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=20&scrV=10#xi.ix-p344.1
 507. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=21&scrV=3#x.i-p15.2
 508. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=21&scrV=6#x.xiv-p74.3
 509. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=21&scrV=11#ix.xxii-p65.1
 510. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=21&scrV=18#vii.ix-p64.1
 511. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=21&scrV=23#x.xv-p193.1
 512. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=22&scrV=6#x.v-p37.1
 513. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=22&scrV=6#xi.ix-p199.2
 514. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=22&scrV=7#x.v-p36.1
 515. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=22&scrV=9#v-p43.2
 516. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=22&scrV=12#vi.vi-p22.4
 517. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=22&scrV=12#viii.xxvi-p70.2
 518. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=23&scrV=3#xi.v-p13.1
 519. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=23&scrV=11#xi.ix-p162.3
 520. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=23&scrV=25#viii.xxxv-p36.1
 521. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=24&scrV=1#ix.xxii-p47.2
 522. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=24&scrV=1#ix.xxii-p54.1
 523. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=24&scrV=19#xi.v-p57.3
 524. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=25&scrV=5#vi.ii-p52.3
 525. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=25&scrV=5#x.iv-p36.1
 526. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=25&scrV=19#xi.ix-p364.4
 527. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=26&scrV=0#xi.iv-p42.1
 528. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=26&scrV=15#viii.x-p109.2
 529. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=27&scrV=4#viii.vii-p60.8
 530. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=28&scrV=0#xi.v-p24.2
 531. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=28&scrV=12#vii.viii-p76.1
 532. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=28&scrV=15#vii.xii-p48.3
 533. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=28&scrV=69#viii.xvi-p34.1
 534. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=29&scrV=1#viii.xvi-p32.1
 535. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=29&scrV=27#vi.i-p89.1
 536. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=30&scrV=0#vi.vi-p44.2
 537. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=30&scrV=4#vi.i-p13.5
 538. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=30&scrV=12#viii.vi-p37.1
 539. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=30&scrV=13#vi.i-p81.1
 540. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=31&scrV=16#x.iv-p10.1
 541. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=31&scrV=21#viii.vii-p58.1
 542. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=31&scrV=27#ix.xix-p17.4
 543. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=32&scrV=1#ix.viii-p104.1
 544. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=32&scrV=1#xi.ii-p24.6
 545. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=32&scrV=2#vi.iv-p37.1
 546. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=32&scrV=4#vii.iv-p3.1
 547. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=32&scrV=8#vi.ii-p63.1
 548. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=32&scrV=12#ix.xxiii-p41.1
 549. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=32&scrV=16#xi.xv-p3.1
 550. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=32&scrV=34#xi.xii-p66.7
 551. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=32&scrV=39#x.iv-p14.1
 552. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=32&scrV=40#xi.ii-p24.6
 553. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=32&scrV=49#vii.v-p41.3
 554. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=33&scrV=2#vii.xi-p141.3
 555. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=33&scrV=3#vi.iv-p49.6
 556. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=33&scrV=11#vii.iii-p11.1
 557. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=33&scrV=17#vii.viii-p29.5
 558. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=33&scrV=17#xi.iii-p6.2
 559. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=33&scrV=23#viii.xxxvii-p9.1
 560. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=33&scrV=27#vi.iv-p49.1
 561. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=33&scrV=27#xi.ii-p9.7
 562. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=33&scrV=27#xi.ii-p20.1
 563. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=34&scrV=1#viii.i-p27.1
 564. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=34&scrV=6#xi.xii-p24.3
 565. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Deut&scrCh=34&scrV=8#viii.xxxii-p33.1
 566. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Josh&scrCh=1&scrV=8#vi.ii-p20.1
 567. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Josh&scrCh=3&scrV=9#xi.ix-p270.1
 568. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Josh&scrCh=3&scrV=17#xi.v-p57.18
 569. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Josh&scrCh=7&scrV=19#ix.ix-p62.1
 570. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Josh&scrCh=7&scrV=21#ix.iii-p10.2
 571. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Josh&scrCh=8&scrV=33#xi.v-p57.4
 572. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Josh&scrCh=11&scrV=1#viii.xxxvii-p8.1
 573. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Josh&scrCh=13&scrV=27#viii.xxviii-p28.2
 574. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Josh&scrCh=15&scrV=0#x.xvii-p47.1
 575. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Josh&scrCh=15&scrV=1#viii.vii-p19.2
 576. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Josh&scrCh=15&scrV=25#viii.xvii-p133.1
 577. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Josh&scrCh=15&scrV=25#viii.xxxii-p85.1
 578. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Josh&scrCh=15&scrV=32#viii.vii-p19.2
 579. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Josh&scrCh=19&scrV=10#vii.iv-p7.1
 580. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Josh&scrCh=22&scrV=21#vii.viii-p29.6
 581. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Josh&scrCh=22&scrV=24#ix.xx-p36.2
 582. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Josh&scrCh=22&scrV=30#vii.viii-p29.6
 583. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=5&scrV=2#vi.ii-p13.1
 584. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=5&scrV=2#viii.x-p135.1
 585. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=5&scrV=9#vi.ii-p13.1
 586. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=5&scrV=9#viii.x-p135.1
 587. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=5&scrV=9#viii.xxvi-p47.1
 588. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=5&scrV=31#xi.ix-p6.10
 589. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=6&scrV=1#viii.vi-p28.2
 590. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=6&scrV=12#vii.iv-p40.1
 591. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=6&scrV=15#vii.viii-p29.3
 592. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=6&scrV=19#viii.xxiii-p121.2
 593. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=9&scrV=7#viii.xxiii-p58.1
 594. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=11&scrV=3#vii.x-p25.1
 595. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=12&scrV=5#viii.viii-p31.1
 596. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=13&scrV=18#vii.iii-p55.1
 597. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=15&scrV=20#xi.v-p57.19
 598. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=18&scrV=30#vi.i-p13.3
 599. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Judg&scrCh=19&scrV=21#viii.xxi-p50.2
 600. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ruth&scrCh=1&scrV=4#vii.xi-p53.1
 601. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ruth&scrCh=1&scrV=10#xi.xii-p7.7
 602. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ruth&scrCh=1&scrV=15#xi.xii-p7.7
 603. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ruth&scrCh=1&scrV=17#viii.xxvii-p123.1
 604. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ruth&scrCh=2&scrV=9#vii.vii-p47.1
 605. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ruth&scrCh=2&scrV=14#vii.xi-p84.1
 606. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ruth&scrCh=2&scrV=14#xi.viii-p10.1
 607. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ruth&scrCh=2&scrV=14#xi.ix-p173.2
 608. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ruth&scrCh=2&scrV=14#xi.ix-p234.1
 609. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ruth&scrCh=2&scrV=14#xi.ix-p304.3
 610. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ruth&scrCh=3&scrV=13#ix.ix-p16.1
 611. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ruth&scrCh=3&scrV=18#viii.xviii-p97.1
 612. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ruth&scrCh=4&scrV=18#xi.ix-p6.2
 613. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ruth&scrCh=4&scrV=18#xi.ix-p6.9
 614. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ruth&scrCh=4&scrV=19#xi.ix-p8.1
 615. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ruth&scrCh=5&scrV=0#xi.ix-p59.1
 616. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=1&scrV=24#viii.xxiii-p121.3
 617. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=2&scrV=1#vii.iv-p56.1
 618. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=2&scrV=2#viii.xviii-p89.6
 619. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=2&scrV=6#xi.xviii-p7.2
 620. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=2&scrV=9#viii.xix-p44.1
 621. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=4&scrV=21#vi.i-p13.4
 622. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=8&scrV=7#vii.xi-p99.1
 623. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=9&scrV=22#x.ix-p35.2
 624. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=10&scrV=3#x.ix-p27.1
 625. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=13&scrV=0#viii.vi-p30.1
 626. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=13&scrV=1#viii.iv-p9.1
 627. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=14&scrV=3#viii.xxxv-p49.2
 628. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=15&scrV=22#vii.xii-p5.1
 629. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=16&scrV=1#xi.ix-p71.1
 630. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=16&scrV=14#viii.xiv-p19.1
 631. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=19&scrV=12#viii.xxvii-p92.1
 632. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=22&scrV=9#viii.xxxv-p49.1
 633. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=23&scrV=3#ix.xix-p17.6
 634. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=25&scrV=29#xi.xviii-p10.1
 635. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=25&scrV=41#viii.xxi-p50.3
 636. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Sam&scrCh=28&scrV=14#x.iv-p25.1
 637. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Sam&scrCh=1&scrV=0#vi.ii-p47.1
 638. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Sam&scrCh=3&scrV=25#xi.v-p57.20
 639. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Sam&scrCh=3&scrV=28#x.xiv-p74.4
 640. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Sam&scrCh=5&scrV=23#ix.xvii-p47.1
 641. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Sam&scrCh=12&scrV=1#viii.xxiii-p58.2
 642. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Sam&scrCh=15&scrV=5#viii.xxi-p50.5
 643. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Sam&scrCh=15&scrV=6#xi.v-p57.5
 644. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Sam&scrCh=15&scrV=9#vii.vii-p48.2
 645. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Sam&scrCh=18&scrV=14#ix.xi-p51.3
 646. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Sam&scrCh=19&scrV=18#vii.xii-p15.1
 647. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Sam&scrCh=20&scrV=14#viii.xxxvii-p11.1
 648. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Sam&scrCh=21&scrV=1#x.iv-p137.1
 649. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Sam&scrCh=22&scrV=28#xi.ix-p368.33
 650. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Kgs&scrCh=1&scrV=9#ix.vii-p21.1
 651. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Kgs&scrCh=1&scrV=33#ix.vii-p20.1
 652. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Kgs&scrCh=1&scrV=38#ix.vii-p20.1
 653. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Kgs&scrCh=2&scrV=27#vii.iv-p78.3
 654. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Kgs&scrCh=4&scrV=33#vii.xi-p79.1
 655. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Kgs&scrCh=7&scrV=23#ix.xviii-p31.1
 656. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Kgs&scrCh=7&scrV=26#ix.xviii-p31.1
 657. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Kgs&scrCh=8&scrV=66#ix.viii-p110.2
 658. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Kgs&scrCh=13&scrV=32#viii.vii-p38.1
 659. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Kgs&scrCh=16&scrV=0#viii.xi-p30.1
 660. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Kgs&scrCh=18&scrV=4#viii.xxvii-p128.1
 661. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Kgs&scrCh=18&scrV=37#vii.iii-p41.1
 662. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Kgs&scrCh=18&scrV=37#vii.iii-p62.1
 663. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Kgs&scrCh=22&scrV=23#xi.xii-p34.2
 664. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=1&scrV=2#viii.xxvii-p96.1
 665. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=1&scrV=3#vii.xi-p58.1
 666. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=6&scrV=16#ix.i-p20.1
 667. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=9&scrV=35#viii.iv-p16.1
 668. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=12&scrV=4#ix.iii-p9.1
 669. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=15&scrV=29#viii.vii-p38.2
 670. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=17&scrV=6#viii.vii-p41.1
 671. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=17&scrV=24#viii.viii-p60.1
 672. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=17&scrV=24#ix.viii-p93.1
 673. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=17&scrV=24#viii.vii-p43.1
 674. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=17&scrV=30#ix.viii-p93.1
 675. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=17&scrV=30#viii.vii-p51.1
 676. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=17&scrV=31#xi.v-p57.21
 677. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=20&scrV=20#ix.vii-p18.2
 678. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=23&scrV=6#ix.xxi-p40.1
 679. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=25&scrV=5#ix.xxiv-p4.1
 680. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Kgs&scrCh=27&scrV=24#viii.vii-p85.1
 681. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Chr&scrCh=3&scrV=17#xi.v-p57.33
 682. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Chr&scrCh=3&scrV=24#vii.v-p164.1
 683. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Chr&scrCh=6&scrV=44#x.xii-p78.1
 684. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Chr&scrCh=8&scrV=37#vi.i-p56.1
 685. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Chr&scrCh=17&scrV=21#viii.xxxi-p116.4
 686. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Chr&scrCh=24&scrV=10#vii.iii-p15.1
 687. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=7&scrV=16#vii.v-p72.1
 688. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=13&scrV=19#ix.xxi-p135.1
 689. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=24&scrV=6#ix.iii-p9.2
 690. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=24&scrV=20#x.iv-p153.1
 691. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=26&scrV=2#xi.v-p57.34
 692. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=28&scrV=15#xi.v-p57.13
 693. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=29&scrV=25#xi.v-p52.2
 694. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=30&scrV=1#xi.v-p52.3
 695. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=30&scrV=1#viii.vii-p40.1
 696. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=32&scrV=30#ix.vii-p18.1
 697. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=33&scrV=12#viii.xvii-p52.1
 698. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=34&scrV=6#viii.vii-p47.1
 699. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=34&scrV=9#viii.vii-p47.1
 700. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=35&scrV=1#x.xiv-p18.2
 701. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=35&scrV=6#x.xiv-p18.2
 702. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=35&scrV=18#x.xiv-p18.2
 703. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Chr&scrCh=36&scrV=22#vii.iv-p78.4
 704. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezra&scrCh=1&scrV=3#vii.v-p72.4
 705. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezra&scrCh=2&scrV=34#ix.xxiv-p5.1
 706. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezra&scrCh=4&scrV=2#viii.vii-p43.2
 707. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezra&scrCh=4&scrV=3#xi.v-p57.31
 708. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezra&scrCh=4&scrV=7#vi.i-p66.2
 709. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezra&scrCh=4&scrV=10#viii.vii-p43.2
 710. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezra&scrCh=5&scrV=1#x.iv-p152.9
 711. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezra&scrCh=5&scrV=3#vi.iii-p44.3
 712. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezra&scrCh=6&scrV=16#ix.xiv-p12.1
 713. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezra&scrCh=7&scrV=0#vi.viii-p16.1
 714. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezra&scrCh=7&scrV=6#xi.v-p53.1
 715. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezra&scrCh=7&scrV=10#xi.v-p53.1
 716. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezra&scrCh=9&scrV=1#viii.xxxiii-p12.1
 717. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezra&scrCh=10&scrV=14#vi.viii-p23.1
 718. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=2&scrV=8#x.xv-p112.3
 719. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=2&scrV=14#ix.vii-p16.1
 720. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=3&scrV=1#viii.xii-p14.1
 721. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=3&scrV=3#viii.xiii-p17.1
 722. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=3&scrV=15#ix.vii-p17.1
 723. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=3&scrV=20#x.iv-p152.5
 724. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=3&scrV=32#viii.xii-p14.1
 725. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=4&scrV=16#xi.v-p57.32
 726. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=5&scrV=7#vi.viii-p23.2
 727. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=7&scrV=0#xi.xii-p57.1
 728. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=8&scrV=7#viii.x-p12.1
 729. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=9&scrV=2#viii.ii-p131.1
 730. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=10&scrV=4#x.xii-p78.2
 731. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=10&scrV=32#ix.iii-p8.1
 732. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=10&scrV=32#ix.iii-p9.3
 733. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=11&scrV=29#viii.vii-p19.1
 734. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=12&scrV=10#xi.iv-p7.1
 735. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=12&scrV=22#xi.iv-p7.1
 736. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=12&scrV=22#xi.iv-p8.1
 737. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=12&scrV=27#ix.xiv-p12.2
 738. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=13&scrV=0#vi.viii-p20.1
 739. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Neh&scrCh=13&scrV=4#vii.x-p68.3
 740. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Esth&scrCh=1&scrV=9#viii.xxvii-p110.2
 741. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Esth&scrCh=2&scrV=1#xi.xii-p66.9
 742. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Esth&scrCh=2&scrV=3#xi.xii-p66.9
 743. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Esth&scrCh=2&scrV=7#viii.xxvi-p112.3
 744. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Esth&scrCh=7&scrV=9#vii.x-p95.3
 745. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Esth&scrCh=8&scrV=2#viii.xxvii-p72.1
 746. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Esth&scrCh=9&scrV=12#ix.xix-p17.8
 747. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=1&scrV=1#xi.v-p57.11
 748. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=1&scrV=15#xi.xii-p70.1
 749. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=1&scrV=21#xi.xii-p34.1
 750. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=9&scrV=7#x.xv-p139.4
 751. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=14&scrV=20#xi.ix-p6.4
 752. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=16&scrV=9#viii.xix-p52.3
 753. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=21&scrV=0#ix.viii-p95.1
 754. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=21&scrV=9#ix.v-p30.1
 755. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=26&scrV=7#xi.v-p67.1
 756. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=28&scrV=21#xi.xii-p35.5
 757. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Job&scrCh=33&scrV=28#viii.xviii-p60.1
 758. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=1&scrV=0#vii.v-p38.1
 759. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=1&scrV=0#vii.xii-p57.2
 760. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=1&scrV=0#viii.xviii-p51.1
 761. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=1&scrV=0#xi.xii-p69.1
 762. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=1&scrV=0#xi.v-p10.3
 763. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=0#vii.xii-p38.1
 764. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=0#x.vi-p26.1
 765. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=0#xi.ix-p70.1
 766. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=0#xi.ix-p70.3
 767. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=0#xi.ix-p124.1
 768. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=0#xi.ix-p211.1
 769. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=2#xi.ix-p173.1
 770. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=2#xi.ix-p223.1
 771. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=3#viii.xviii-p51.2
 772. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=4#viii.xviii-p51.3
 773. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=4#viii.xviii-p51.4
 774. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=4#ix.iii-p20.1
 775. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=6#xi.ix-p72.3
 776. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=7#vii.viii-p88.2
 777. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=7#vii.viii-p88.3
 778. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=7#vii.xii-p39.1
 779. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=7#vii.xii-p39.3
 780. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=7#xi.ix-p28.1
 781. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=7#xi.ix-p72.1
 782. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=7#xi.ix-p73.1
 783. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=7#xi.ix-p73.5
 784. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=7#xi.ix-p211.2
 785. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=7#xi.ix-p232.5
 786. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=9#xi.ix-p23.1
 787. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=2&scrV=9#xi.ix-p130.2
 788. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=3&scrV=4#vii.v-p72.2
 789. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=3&scrV=16#x.vi-p142.1
 790. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=4&scrV=8#viii.xxxiii-p20.1
 791. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=5&scrV=5#xi.v-p57.28
 792. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=6&scrV=1#vii.xi-p123.1
 793. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=8&scrV=4#viii.xxiv-p30.1
 794. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=8&scrV=5#viii.xxx-p13.1
 795. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=9&scrV=6#vi.viii-p55.1
 796. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=10&scrV=8#viii.xvii-p82.2
 797. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=11&scrV=0#vi.vi-p55.1
 798. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=11&scrV=0#vii.v-p135.1
 799. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=11&scrV=0#xi.xii-p69.1
 800. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=11&scrV=12#xi.ix-p220.1
 801. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=12&scrV=0#xi.xviii-p27.1
 802. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=12&scrV=0#ix.viii-p110.1
 803. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=13&scrV=0#xi.ix-p163.1
 804. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=13&scrV=0#xi.ix-p239.2
 805. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=13&scrV=0#xi.ix-p313.1
 806. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=13&scrV=6#viii.xxxvii-p7.1
 807. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=14&scrV=0#x.vi-p65.1
 808. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=14&scrV=2#x.vi-p142.6
 809. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=14&scrV=7#vii.xi-p78.1
 810. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=15&scrV=0#ix.xviii-p103.1
 811. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=15&scrV=31#xi.iv-p24.1
 812. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=16&scrV=5#xi.ix-p78.1
 813. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=16&scrV=9#xi.ix-p163.2
 814. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=16&scrV=10#x.xv-p209.1
 815. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=17&scrV=0#vii.v-p136.1
 816. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=17&scrV=14#viii.xxvii-p110.3
 817. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=18&scrV=0#xi.ix-p116.1
 818. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=18&scrV=36#vii.v-p196.1
 819. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=18&scrV=36#xi.ix-p124.2
 820. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=18&scrV=50#vii.iv-p69.5
 821. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=19&scrV=0#xi.ix-p356.2
 822. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=21&scrV=0#vii.v-p207.1
 823. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=21&scrV=0#x.vi-p50.1
 824. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=21&scrV=0#xi.ix-p89.1
 825. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=21&scrV=1#xi.ix-p175.2
 826. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=21&scrV=1#xi.ix-p238.1
 827. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=21&scrV=1#xi.ix-p275.1
 828. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=21&scrV=3#vii.v-p184.1
 829. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=21&scrV=4#x.vi-p26.2
 830. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=21&scrV=4#xi.ix-p76.1
 831. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=21&scrV=7#xi.ix-p277.1
 832. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=22&scrV=0#x.xv-p73.1
 833. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=22&scrV=0#x.xv-p94.1
 834. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=22&scrV=0#x.xv-p98.1
 835. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=22&scrV=0#x.xv-p158.2
 836. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=22&scrV=1#x.xv-p153.1
 837. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=22&scrV=1#x.xv-p153.2
 838. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=22&scrV=1#x.xv-p156.3
 839. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=22&scrV=2#x.xv-p151.1
 840. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=22&scrV=7#x.xv-p96.1
 841. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=22&scrV=7#xi.ix-p279.4
 842. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=22&scrV=8#x.xv-p93.1
 843. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=22&scrV=17#vii.iv-p69.2
 844. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=22&scrV=18#x.xv-p72.1
 845. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=23&scrV=0#ix.x-p18.1
 846. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=23&scrV=5#viii.xix-p39.3
 847. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=23&scrV=5#viii.xxi-p50.8
 848. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=23&scrV=5#xi.ix-p78.3
 849. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=24&scrV=1#ix.xii-p20.1
 850. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=25&scrV=0#x.i-p35.4
 851. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=26&scrV=2#viii.i-p60.1
 852. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=26&scrV=6#x.xiv-p74.5
 853. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=27&scrV=4#viii.xxvii-p95.2
 854. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=29&scrV=3#xi.xv-p19.1
 855. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=30&scrV=4#viii.ii-p130.1
 856. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=30&scrV=5#xi.iv-p26.1
 857. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=31&scrV=0#vii.v-p104.1
 858. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=31&scrV=1#xi.xiii-p8.1
 859. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=31&scrV=5#x.xv-p164.1
 860. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=31&scrV=19#vii.v-p194.1
 861. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=31&scrV=20#viii.xxiii-p125.10
 862. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=32&scrV=0#viii.xvii-p21.1
 863. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=34&scrV=20#x.xv-p198.1
 864. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=35&scrV=16#viii.xix-p52.4
 865. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=35&scrV=19#x.xi-p75.1
 866. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=36&scrV=5#vii.x-p3.1
 867. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=36&scrV=9#vii.v-p167.2
 868. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=37&scrV=25#x.iii-p78.2
 869. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=40&scrV=6#vii.xii-p5.2
 870. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=40&scrV=8#xi.ix-p8.2
 871. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=41&scrV=0#x.x-p72.1
 872. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=41&scrV=5#viii.xvii-p81.2
 873. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=41&scrV=9#x.x-p71.1
 874. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=42&scrV=0#vii.x-p57.1
 875. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=42&scrV=2#viii.xvii-p81.1
 876. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=44&scrV=23#xi.iv-p42.2
 877. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=45&scrV=0#vii.vi-p40.3
 878. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=45&scrV=1#xi.ix-p305.2
 879. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=45&scrV=2#ix.xviii-p52.3
 880. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=45&scrV=7#vii.iv-p42.1
 881. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=45&scrV=7#vii.iv-p42.2
 882. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=46&scrV=8#vi.iv-p21.1
 883. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=47&scrV=13#xi.ix-p252.1
 884. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=49&scrV=0#ix.vii-p48.1
 885. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=49&scrV=0#ix.xvi-p14.1
 886. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=49&scrV=12#xi.ix-p6.15
 887. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=50&scrV=23#viii.xvii-p128.2
 888. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=54&scrV=0#vii.v-p154.2
 889. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=54&scrV=0#vii.v-p154.4
 890. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=56&scrV=0#x.vi-p52.1
 891. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=58&scrV=4#vii.xi-p116.1
 892. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=62&scrV=11#vi.iii-p33.1
 893. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=68&scrV=4#viii-p9.3
 894. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=68&scrV=12#vi.iii-p34.1
 895. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=68&scrV=18#viii.i-p17.1
 896. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=68&scrV=27#xi.v-p57.10
 897. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=68&scrV=32#xi.ix-p50.2
 898. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=69&scrV=9#viii.vi-p3.1
 899. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=69&scrV=20#x.xv-p208.1
 900. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=69&scrV=21#x.xv-p156.1
 901. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=69&scrV=21#x.xv-p156.2
 902. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=0#vii.v-p112.1
 903. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=0#vii.v-p114.1
 904. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=0#xi.ix-p335.1
 905. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=1#xi.ix-p129.1
 906. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=5#vii.v-p111.1
 907. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=5#xi.ix-p370.15
 908. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=5#xi.ix-p118.2
 909. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=7#vii.v-p111.1
 910. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=8#xi.ix-p109.2
 911. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=10#vii.viii-p10.2
 912. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=16#vii.v-p177.1
 913. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=16#x.vi-p59.5
 914. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=16#xi.ix-p14.3
 915. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=17#viii.xxxii-p45.1
 916. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=17#xi.ix-p370.4
 917. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=72&scrV=17#xi.ix-p108.2
 918. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=74&scrV=0#viii.x-p10.1
 919. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=75&scrV=0#xi.v-p25.1
 920. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=76&scrV=9#vi.vii-p47.1
 921. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=80&scrV=5#xi.ix-p368.11
 922. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=81&scrV=0#x.ix-p62.1
 923. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=81&scrV=2#vii.xi-p100.5
 924. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=82&scrV=0#ix.vii-p33.1
 925. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=82&scrV=6#ix.xiv-p43.1
 926. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=82&scrV=6#ix.xiv-p45.1
 927. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=85&scrV=4#vii.v-p81.2
 928. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=88&scrV=12#viii.xix-p44.2
 929. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=89&scrV=22#xi.ix-p363.1
 930. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=89&scrV=23#xi.ix-p248.11
 931. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=89&scrV=32#viii.xvii-p37.4
 932. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=89&scrV=51#xi.ix-p368.3
 933. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=89&scrV=52#xi.ix-p116.2
 934. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=90&scrV=1#xi.ii-p9.8
 935. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=90&scrV=4#x.vi-p37.1
 936. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=90&scrV=15#xi.ix-p370.18
 937. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=91&scrV=13#ix.v-p52.1
 938. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=92&scrV=0#viii.xvii-p48.1
 939. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=92&scrV=1#xi.ix-p368.8
 940. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=92&scrV=3#vii.xi-p100.7
 941. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=92&scrV=11#xi.ix-p70.2
 942. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=93&scrV=0#vii.v-p154.1
 943. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=93&scrV=1#vii.v-p187.1
 944. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=93&scrV=1#vii.v-p188.1
 945. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=93&scrV=1#viii.xxiii-p125.5
 946. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=93&scrV=1#viii.xxxii-p47.1
 947. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=95&scrV=7#xi.ix-p369.1
 948. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=95&scrV=10#xi.ix-p370.13
 949. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=98&scrV=1#xi.ix-p116.5
 950. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=100&scrV=1#viii.xvii-p128.1
 951. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=102&scrV=18#viii.vi-p28.1
 952. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=103&scrV=17#x.i-p36.1
 953. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=104&scrV=1#vii.v-p186.1
 954. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=104&scrV=1#viii.xxiii-p125.4
 955. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=104&scrV=4#xi.xii-p17.1
 956. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=105&scrV=8#vii.iv-p90.3
 957. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=106&scrV=9#viii.xxiv-p10.1
 958. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=106&scrV=9#viii.xxiv-p20.1
 959. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=107&scrV=1#xi.ix-p202.1
 960. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=107&scrV=2#xi.ix-p176.1
 961. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=110&scrV=0#vii.v-p113.1
 962. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=110&scrV=0#x.iv-p68.1
 963. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=110&scrV=0#x.iv-p68.2
 964. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=110&scrV=1#vii.v-p197.1
 965. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=110&scrV=1#xi.ix-p73.4
 966. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=110&scrV=2#xi.viii-p17.1
 967. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=110&scrV=2#xi.ix-p170.2
 968. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=110&scrV=3#vii.v-p111.2
 969. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=112&scrV=6#ix.xxi-p103.1
 970. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=112&scrV=10#viii.xix-p52.1
 971. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=113&scrV=0#vii.ix-p95.1
 972. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=113&scrV=0#viii.xviii-p47.1
 973. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=113&scrV=0#ix.vii-p30.1
 974. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=113&scrV=0#ix.xiv-p14.1
 975. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=113&scrV=0#x.i-p35.1
 976. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=113&scrV=0#x.i-p50.1
 977. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=113&scrV=0#x.ix-p66.1
 978. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=114&scrV=16#ix.xi-p19.1
 979. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=115&scrV=0#x.xi-p4.1
 980. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=115&scrV=0#x.xii-p3.1
 981. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=115&scrV=17#ix.xxi-p44.1
 982. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=115&scrV=17#xi.v-p41.1
 983. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=116&scrV=13#viii.xix-p39.2
 984. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=116&scrV=13#xi.ix-p78.2
 985. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=116&scrV=13#xi.ix-p78.4
 986. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=0#ix.vii-p30.2
 987. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=0#ix.vii-p41.1
 988. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=0#x.i-p32.1
 989. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=0#x.i-p35.3
 990. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=0#x.i-p37.1
 991. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=0#x.i-p49.1
 992. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=0#x.i-p51.1
 993. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=0#x.ix-p66.2
 994. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=22#x.v-p68.1
 995. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=25#ix.vii-p31.1
 996. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=25#ix.vii-p36.1
 997. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=118&scrV=25#x.i-p34.1
 998. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=119&scrV=164#vii.xi-p100.6
 999. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=119&scrV=165#xi.ix-p368.26
1000. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=120&scrV=0#vii.x-p58.1
1001. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=120&scrV=0#xi.ix-p77.1
1002. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=121&scrV=1#xi.ix-p229.1
1003. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=121&scrV=6#xi.xii-p66.2
1004. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=121&scrV=8#vii.ix-p76.1
1005. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=122&scrV=0#vii.i-p4.1
1006. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=122&scrV=1#vii.x-p4.1
1007. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=132&scrV=17#xi.ix-p248.4
1008. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=132&scrV=17#xi.ix-p253.1
1009. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=132&scrV=18#xi.ix-p363.2
1010. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=133&scrV=2#ix.xxiv-p56.3
1011. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=136&scrV=0#x.xi-p4.2
1012. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=136&scrV=0#x.xii-p3.2
1013. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=136&scrV=24#ix.xi-p15.1
1014. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=137&scrV=7#xi.xii-p27.2
1015. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=139&scrV=16#xi.ix-p349.1
1016. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=139&scrV=21#xi.xvi-p36.1
1017. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=146&scrV=0#x.vi-p53.1
1018. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=146&scrV=7#xi.xiii-p9.1
1019. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=146&scrV=8#xi.ix-p201.1
1020. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=147&scrV=1#vii.xi-p99.2
1021. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=147&scrV=2#vi.i-p13.6
1022. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ps&scrCh=150&scrV=0#viii.xviii-p89.4
1023. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=2&scrV=4#ix.xvii-p27.1
1024. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=3&scrV=19#xi.ix-p171.2
1025. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=6&scrV=0#xi.ix-p319.3
1026. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=7&scrV=26#viii.x-p127.1
1027. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=8&scrV=2#viii.x-p24.1
1028. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=8&scrV=9#vii.v-p151.3
1029. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=8&scrV=15#x.iv-p109.1
1030. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=8&scrV=36#vii.ix-p43.1
1031. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=9&scrV=5#viii.xxxii-p35.1
1032. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=10&scrV=7#ix.xxi-p103.2
1033. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=10&scrV=22#viii.xxxv-p6.1
1034. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=11&scrV=31#ix.xix-p17.7
1035. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=13&scrV=12#viii.iv-p21.1
1036. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=16&scrV=11#x.v-p74.2
1037. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=17&scrV=5#viii.xx-p50.1
1038. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=19&scrV=21#vii.iv-p69.1
1039. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=19&scrV=21#xi.ix-p23.2
1040. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=19&scrV=21#xi.ix-p218.1
1041. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=19&scrV=21#xi.ix-p275.2
1042. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=19&scrV=23#vii.iv-p74.1
1043. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=19&scrV=29#viii.xv-p53.1
1044. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=21&scrV=14#xi.xii-p64.2
1045. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=22&scrV=28#xi.v-p57.12
1046. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=23&scrV=15#viii.xxxi-p87.1
1047. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=23&scrV=23#viii.xxvii-p52.1
1048. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=23&scrV=25#vii.iv-p90.1
1049. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=25&scrV=1#xi.v-p52.1
1050. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=25&scrV=13#ix.i-p18.1
1051. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=26&scrV=4#xi.v-p40.1
1052. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=30&scrV=1#ix.v-p71.1
1053. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Prov&scrCh=30&scrV=17#vii.ix-p65.1
1054. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=1&scrV=7#viii.xxiii-p135.2
1055. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=1&scrV=7#xi.ix-p184.1
1056. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=1&scrV=8#viii.v-p11.1
1057. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=1&scrV=9#vii.v-p178.2
1058. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=1&scrV=9#viii.xxxii-p30.1
1059. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=1&scrV=9#x.i-p45.3
1060. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=1&scrV=9#xi.ix-p106.2
1061. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=1&scrV=9#xi.ix-p313.2
1062. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=1&scrV=15#viii.xxiii-p135.8
1063. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=1&scrV=15#ix.xviii-p148.1
1064. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=1&scrV=16#viii.xxxi-p169.1
1065. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=1&scrV=18#vii.xi-p95.1
1066. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=2&scrV=2#xi.v-p42.1
1067. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=2&scrV=5#xi.xii-p66.6
1068. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=2&scrV=5#x.xv-p112.1
1069. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=2&scrV=7#xi.ix-p257.1
1070. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=2&scrV=8#vii.iv-p8.1
1071. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=2&scrV=18#ix.xviii-p65.1
1072. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=2&scrV=24#viii.xxxii-p38.1
1073. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=3&scrV=5#x.vi-p175.1
1074. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=3&scrV=16#x.iv-p154.1
1075. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=3&scrV=24#viii.ix-p11.1
1076. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=3&scrV=39#viii.xviii-p12.1
1077. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=4&scrV=2#xi.v-p41.2
1078. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=4&scrV=3#viii.xx-p68.1
1079. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=4&scrV=13#vii.v-p44.1
1080. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=5&scrV=11#x.iv-p140.1
1081. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=5&scrV=11#x.v-p33.1
1082. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=5&scrV=12#x.v-p32.1
1083. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=6&scrV=25#xi.iv-p73.1
1084. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=7&scrV=5#viii.x-p159.1
1085. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=7&scrV=12#viii.vi-p15.1
1086. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=7&scrV=13#vii.v-p34.1
1087. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=7&scrV=18#viii.xxvi-p118.1
1088. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=7&scrV=19#viii.xxxi-p171.1
1089. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=8&scrV=1#ix.xvii-p44.1
1090. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=9&scrV=2#vii.v-p41.2
1091. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=9&scrV=7#x.vi-p99.3
1092. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=9&scrV=8#viii.xxi-p50.6
1093. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=9&scrV=8#x.v-p74.1
1094. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=9&scrV=14#xi.v-p57.29
1095. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=9&scrV=15#viii.x-p132.1
1096. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=9&scrV=18#ix.xxi-p132.1
1097. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=10&scrV=2#vi.iv-p83.1
1098. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=10&scrV=7#ix.xxii-p76.1
1099. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=10&scrV=8#viii.xxii-p15.1
1100. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=10&scrV=8#viii.xxvii-p110.1
1101. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=12&scrV=3#vi.viii-p82.1
1102. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=12&scrV=3#viii.xxxi-p171.2
1103. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=12&scrV=10#xi.ix-p263.1
1104. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eccl&scrCh=12&scrV=12#xi.v-p43.1
1105. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=0#viii.xxiii-p27.1
1106. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=0#x.i-p45.1
1107. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=1#viii.xxiii-p30.1
1108. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=1#ix.xvi-p33.1
1109. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=1#ix.xvii-p28.1
1110. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=1#xi.ix-p358.1
1111. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=3#xi.xii-p7.2
1112. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=4#x.i-p45.2
1113. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=4#xi.ix-p250.1
1114. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=7#vii.vii-p49.3
1115. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=7#x.ix-p12.1
1116. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=10#ix.v-p68.1
1117. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=14#vii.iv-p70.1
1118. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=14#ix.xxiv-p8.1
1119. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=15#vi.vi-p40.1
1120. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=15#viii.x-p157.1
1121. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=15#vii.xii-p57.1
1122. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=1&scrV=16#xi.ix-p270.2
1123. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=9#viii.x-p119.3
1124. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=9#vii.v-p72.3
1125. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=9#viii.x-p155.10
1126. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=9#xi.ix-p59.6
1127. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=10#ix.vi-p41.1
1128. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=11#viii.xx-p3.1
1129. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=12#vii.xi-p98.1
1130. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=12#vii.xii-p52.1
1131. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=13#xi.xiii-p8.2
1132. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=13#x.vi-p51.1
1133. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=13#xi.ix-p117.1
1134. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=13#xi.ix-p229.2
1135. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=13#xi.ix-p244.1
1136. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=13#xi.ix-p314.2
1137. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=13#xi.ix-p324.1
1138. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=13#xi.ix-p351.1
1139. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=14#viii.xxvii-p73.1
1140. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=2&scrV=15#viii.x-p155.13
1141. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=3&scrV=8#xi.xii-p66.5
1142. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=4&scrV=0#xi.ix-p149.1
1143. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=4&scrV=6#xi.xii-p66.3
1144. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=4&scrV=6#xi.xii-p66.4
1145. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=4&scrV=8#ix.i-p13.2
1146. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=4&scrV=12#ix.xviii-p138.1
1147. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=4&scrV=13#x.xv-p112.2
1148. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=4&scrV=14#viii.viii-p47.2
1149. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=2#vii.v-p79.1
1150. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=2#xi.ix-p121.1
1151. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=2#xi.ix-p279.2
1152. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=5#vi.i-p44.1
1153. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=10#vii.iv-p3.2
1154. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=10#viii.xxxi-p107.1
1155. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=10#xi.ix-p262.1
1156. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=5&scrV=11#vi.vii-p11.1
1157. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=6&scrV=0#xi.ix-p151.1
1158. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=7&scrV=5#xi.xii-p35.3
1159. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=7&scrV=9#x.iv-p11.1
1160. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=7&scrV=12#vi.viii-p57.2
1161. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=8&scrV=2#viii.xix-p39.1
1162. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Song&scrCh=8&scrV=2#x.vi-p99.2
1163. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=1&scrV=0#xi.xii-p39.3
1164. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=1&scrV=0#ix.viii-p26.1
1165. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=1&scrV=11#vii.xii-p5.3
1166. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=1&scrV=18#viii.iii-p42.1
1167. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=1&scrV=21#viii.x-p16.1
1168. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=1&scrV=26#xi.ix-p368.31
1169. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=1&scrV=27#xi.ix-p368.32
1170. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=2&scrV=1#vii.xi-p134.1
1171. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=2&scrV=3#xi.v-p57.22
1172. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=2&scrV=4#xi.ix-p50.1
1173. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=2&scrV=17#xi.ix-p368.5
1174. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=2&scrV=17#xi.ix-p368.7
1175. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=3&scrV=16#vii.ii-p54.1
1176. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=4&scrV=0#xi.ix-p161.1
1177. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=4&scrV=0#xi.ix-p162.1
1178. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=4&scrV=3#ix.v-p55.2
1179. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=4&scrV=3#xi.ix-p146.1
1180. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=4&scrV=4#x.vi-p59.4
1181. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=4&scrV=4#xi.ix-p51.1
1182. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=4&scrV=5#x.vi-p59.3
1183. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=4&scrV=5#xi.ix-p79.1
1184. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=4&scrV=5#ix.i-p42.1
1185. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=4&scrV=6#xi.ix-p14.2
1186. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=5&scrV=0#x.v-p50.1
1187. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=5&scrV=1#viii.xxiii-p58.3
1188. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=5&scrV=7#viii.iii-p5.3
1189. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=5&scrV=7#x.v-p52.1
1190. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=6&scrV=0#x.iii-p86.1
1191. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=6&scrV=0#x.iii-p87.1
1192. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=6&scrV=0#xi.ii-p11.11
1193. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=6&scrV=0#xi.ix-p164.1
1194. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=6&scrV=1#xi.ii-p10.5
1195. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=6&scrV=2#xi.xii-p17.2
1196. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=6&scrV=3#xi.ii-p10.5
1197. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=6&scrV=6#xi.xii-p27.4
1198. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=6&scrV=9#viii.xxiii-p68.1
1199. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=6&scrV=9#viii.xxiv-p9.1
1200. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=7&scrV=14#vii.iv-p79.1
1201. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=7&scrV=14#vii.iv-p81.1
1202. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=7&scrV=14#vii.iv-p81.4
1203. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=7&scrV=21#xi.ix-p14.4
1204. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=8&scrV=1#ix.xviii-p52.1
1205. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=8&scrV=1#ix.xviii-p52.2
1206. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=8&scrV=4#vii.viii-p10.1
1207. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=8&scrV=14#vii.vii-p53.1
1208. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=8&scrV=16#viii.xxvii-p130.1
1209. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=8&scrV=20#viii.iii-p33.1
1210. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=9&scrV=0#vii.v-p111.3
1211. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=9&scrV=0#x.vi-p27.1
1212. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=9&scrV=0#x.x-p68.1
1213. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=9&scrV=0#xi.ix-p167.1
1214. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=9&scrV=1#vii.v-p21.1
1215. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=9&scrV=1#viii.i-p9.1
1216. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=9&scrV=2#viii.xi-p50.1
1217. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=9&scrV=6#vii.ix-p32.1
1218. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=9&scrV=6#vii.v-p115.1
1219. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=9&scrV=6#vii.v-p117.1
1220. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=9&scrV=6#vii.v-p151.1
1221. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=9&scrV=6#viii.iii-p7.1
1222. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=9&scrV=7#xi.ix-p39.1
1223. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=10&scrV=13#xi.v-p57.6
1224. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=0#xi.ix-p125.1
1225. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=0#xi.ix-p170.3
1226. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=0#xi.ix-p179.1
1227. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=1#vii.ix-p37.1
1228. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=1#viii.xvii-p82.3
1229. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=1#xi.ix-p44.1
1230. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=1#xi.ix-p106.1
1231. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=3#viii.xvi-p42.1
1232. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=4#vii.xi-p117.2
1233. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=4#xi.ix-p50.3
1234. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=4#xi.ix-p59.4
1235. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=4#xi.ix-p279.5
1236. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=7#xi.ix-p29.5
1237. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=8#vii.ix-p32.2
1238. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=10#ix.xxi-p104.1
1239. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=10#xi.ix-p23.4
1240. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=10#xi.ix-p23.9
1241. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=10#xi.ix-p82.1
1242. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=12#xi.ix-p204.1
1243. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=12#xi.ix-p213.1
1244. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=12#xi.ix-p216.1
1245. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=12#xi.ix-p225.2
1246. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=12#xi.ix-p227.1
1247. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=12#xi.ix-p241.1
1248. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=12#xi.ix-p246.1
1249. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=11&scrV=12#xi.ix-p265.1
1250. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=12&scrV=0#xi.xiii-p8.4
1251. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=13&scrV=10#x.xv-p139.3
1252. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=14&scrV=2#xi.ix-p15.2
1253. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=14&scrV=19#viii.xvii-p82.4
1254. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=14&scrV=29#vi.vi-p44.3
1255. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=18&scrV=5#xi.ix-p368.29
1256. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=18&scrV=7#xi.ix-p368.29
1257. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=19&scrV=18#vi.v-p18.1
1258. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=21&scrV=11#ix.xviii-p65.5
1259. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=21&scrV=12#vii.xi-p117.6
1260. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=22&scrV=0#xi.ix-p198.2
1261. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=22&scrV=14#viii.xvii-p37.3
1262. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=23&scrV=15#xi.ix-p370.14
1263. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=24&scrV=21#vii.xi-p100.2
1264. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=25&scrV=0#xi.ix-p226.2
1265. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=25&scrV=6#viii.xix-p38.1
1266. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=25&scrV=6#ix.xvi-p51.1
1267. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=25&scrV=8#vii.v-p169.1
1268. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=25&scrV=8#x.vi-p66.1
1269. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=25&scrV=8#xi.ix-p248.10
1270. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=25&scrV=9#xi.ix-p259.2
1271. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=25&scrV=9#xi.ix-p266.2
1272. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=26&scrV=0#x.vi-p54.1
1273. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=26&scrV=19#x.iv-p10.2
1274. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=27&scrV=13#vii.v-p174.1
1275. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=28&scrV=9#vii.ix-p32.4
1276. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=30&scrV=15#xi.ix-p33.1
1277. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=30&scrV=15#xi.ix-p368.20
1278. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=30&scrV=18#xi.ix-p368.14
1279. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=30&scrV=18#xi.ix-p368.15
1280. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=30&scrV=20#vii.ix-p108.1
1281. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=30&scrV=26#vii.xi-p100.3
1282. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=30&scrV=26#xi.ix-p6.14
1283. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=30&scrV=29#vii.x-p57.2
1284. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=32&scrV=14#viii.xi-p22.1
1285. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=32&scrV=14#xi.ix-p256.1
1286. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=33&scrV=17#viii.iii-p9.1
1287. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=34&scrV=4#ix.xxiii-p39.1
1288. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=34&scrV=14#xi.xii-p66.8
1289. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=35&scrV=1#xi.ix-p204.2
1290. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=35&scrV=5#viii.iii-p5.6
1291. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=35&scrV=5#xi.ix-p132.4
1292. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=35&scrV=8#xi.ix-p29.8
1293. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=35&scrV=10#xi.ix-p29.9
1294. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=36&scrV=8#xi.ix-p368.24
1295. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=38&scrV=2#viii.xviii-p73.1
1296. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=40&scrV=0#xi.xi-p5.2
1297. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=40&scrV=0#xi.ix-p207.2
1298. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=40&scrV=1#xi.xi-p3.1
1299. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=40&scrV=3#vii.xi-p15.1
1300. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=40&scrV=3#viii.iii-p5.1
1301. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=40&scrV=3#xi.xi-p3.2
1302. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=40&scrV=3#xi.xi-p4.1
1303. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=40&scrV=3#xi.xi-p5.1
1304. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=40&scrV=3#xi.xi-p3.3
1305. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=40&scrV=4#xi.xi-p4.2
1306. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=40&scrV=9#vii.xi-p95.2
1307. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=42&scrV=1#vi.iv-p98.2
1308. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=42&scrV=1#vii.xii-p39.2
1309. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=42&scrV=1#xi.ix-p73.3
1310. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=42&scrV=3#viii.xxvi-p110.1
1311. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=42&scrV=5#x.iv-p27.1
1312. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=43&scrV=6#vi.i-p34.1
1313. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=44&scrV=3#ix.vii-p43.1
1314. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=44&scrV=6#vii.iv-p43.1
1315. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=44&scrV=6#vii.v-p147.1
1316. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=46&scrV=0#xi.xv-p5.1
1317. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=48&scrV=22#xi.xii-p39.2
1318. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=49&scrV=6#vi.i-p13.7
1319. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=49&scrV=7#xi.ix-p368.21
1320. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=49&scrV=12#xi.ix-p29.11
1321. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=49&scrV=20#x.vi-p47.1
1322. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=49&scrV=23#viii.i-p11.4
1323. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=51&scrV=0#xi.ix-p225.1
1324. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=51&scrV=0#xi.ix-p226.1
1325. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=51&scrV=3#vii.iv-p69.4
1326. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=51&scrV=10#viii.xxiv-p10.2
1327. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=52&scrV=3#xi.ix-p368.17
1328. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=52&scrV=7#xi.viii-p14.1
1329. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=52&scrV=7#xi.viii-p15.1
1330. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=52&scrV=7#xi.ix-p131.2
1331. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=52&scrV=7#xi.ix-p145.1
1332. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=52&scrV=7#xi.ix-p326.2
1333. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=52&scrV=7#xi.ix-p364.1
1334. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=52&scrV=9#vii.iv-p43.3
1335. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=52&scrV=13#viii.iii-p32.1
1336. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=52&scrV=13#viii.iii-p34.1
1337. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=52&scrV=13#viii.iii-p36.1
1338. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=52&scrV=13#xi.ix-p73.2
1339. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=52&scrV=15#viii.iii-p5.4
1340. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=53&scrV=0#iv-p279.1
1341. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=53&scrV=0#vii.v-p20.1
1342. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=53&scrV=0#viii.xiv-p45.1
1343. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=53&scrV=0#viii.xiv-p46.5
1344. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=53&scrV=0#viii.iii-p8.1
1345. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=53&scrV=0#viii.iii-p32.2
1346. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=53&scrV=0#viii.iii-p36.2
1347. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=53&scrV=0#viii.iii-p38.2
1348. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=53&scrV=0#xi.ix-p72.2
1349. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=53&scrV=0#xi.ix-p233.1
1350. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=53&scrV=4#vii.iv-p69.10
1351. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=53&scrV=4#viii.xiv-p46.1
1352. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=53&scrV=4#viii.xv-p31.1
1353. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=53&scrV=4#xi.ix-p370.7
1354. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=53&scrV=5#xi.ix-p59.2
1355. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=53&scrV=9#ix.xxi-p90.2
1356. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=53&scrV=10#vii.xi-p78.2
1357. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=54&scrV=9#xi.ix-p370.23
1358. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=54&scrV=11#xi.ix-p29.4
1359. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=54&scrV=13#viii.xxxii-p59.1
1360. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=54&scrV=13#viii.xxxii-p60.1
1361. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=55&scrV=0#xi.ix-p239.1
1362. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=55&scrV=8#xi.ix-p109.1
1363. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=56&scrV=1#xi.ix-p35.3
1364. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=56&scrV=7#viii.xxxi-p114.1
1365. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=57&scrV=2#xi.xii-p39.1
1366. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=57&scrV=2#xi.xviii-p10.2
1367. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=57&scrV=2#ix.xxi-p104.2
1368. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=57&scrV=14#viii.xi-p12.3
1369. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=57&scrV=14#xi.ix-p260.1
1370. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=57&scrV=15#viii-p9.2
1371. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=57&scrV=19#ix.xvii-p28.2
1372. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=57&scrV=19#xi.ix-p130.1
1373. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=57&scrV=21#xi.xviii-p10.3
1374. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=58&scrV=6#viii.xi-p12.1
1375. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=58&scrV=6#viii.xi-p15.2
1376. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=58&scrV=6#viii.xi-p16.1
1377. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=58&scrV=6#viii.xi-p17.2
1378. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=58&scrV=6#viii.xi-p18.2
1379. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=58&scrV=6#viii.xi-p20.3
1380. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=58&scrV=8#xi.ix-p132.3
1381. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=58&scrV=14#viii.xi-p12.4
1382. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=59&scrV=5#viii.iii-p5.2
1383. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=59&scrV=15#xi.ix-p368.4
1384. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=59&scrV=16#xi.ix-p368.36
1385. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=59&scrV=16#xi.ix-p254.2
1386. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=59&scrV=17#vii.v-p190.1
1387. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=59&scrV=17#vii.v-p191.1
1388. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=59&scrV=17#viii.xxiii-p125.7
1389. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=59&scrV=19#xi.ix-p368.34
1390. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=0#vii.viii-p43.2
1391. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=0#vii.v-p167.1
1392. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=0#ix.xi-p36.1
1393. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=0#x.xv-p97.1
1394. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=0#xi.ix-p90.1
1395. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=0#xi.ix-p94.1
1396. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=0#xi.ix-p173.3
1397. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=0#xi.ix-p248.1
1398. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=0#xi.ix-p248.5
1399. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=0#xi.ix-p248.6
1400. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=0#xi.ix-p248.8
1401. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=0#xi.ix-p253.2
1402. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=0#xi.ix-p254.1
1403. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=0#xi.ix-p264.1
1404. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=1#vii.v-p73.1
1405. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=1#viii.i-p10.1
1406. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=1#viii.i-p11.1
1407. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=1#xi.ix-p114.1
1408. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=1#xi.ix-p187.1
1409. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=1#xi.ix-p279.1
1410. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=1#xi.ix-p341.1
1411. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=2#viii.i-p11.2
1412. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=2#xi.ix-p370.12
1413. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=3#viii.i-p11.3
1414. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=3#xi.xi-p5.3
1415. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=3#xi.ix-p361.1
1416. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=4#xi.ix-p333.2
1417. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=5#xi.ix-p132.2
1418. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=6#vii.viii-p44.1
1419. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=19#xi.ix-p29.1
1420. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=21#xi.ix-p368.35
1421. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=22#vii.viii-p29.2
1422. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=60&scrV=22#xi.ix-p368.37
1423. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=61&scrV=1#viii.xi-p15.1
1424. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=61&scrV=1#viii.xi-p17.3
1425. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=61&scrV=1#viii.xi-p18.1
1426. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=61&scrV=1#viii.xi-p20.2
1427. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=61&scrV=1#xi.ix-p362.1
1428. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=61&scrV=1#viii.xi-p9.1
1429. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=61&scrV=1#viii.xi-p12.2
1430. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=61&scrV=1#viii.xi-p21.1
1431. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=61&scrV=2#viii.xi-p16.2
1432. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=61&scrV=2#viii.xi-p16.3
1433. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=61&scrV=2#viii.xi-p17.1
1434. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=61&scrV=10#vii.v-p193.1
1435. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=61&scrV=10#viii.iv-p11.1
1436. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=61&scrV=10#viii.xxiii-p125.1
1437. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=61&scrV=10#viii.xxiii-p125.9
1438. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=61&scrV=10#xi.ix-p250.5
1439. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=62&scrV=5#xi.ix-p370.21
1440. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=62&scrV=5#x.vi-p37.3
1441. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=62&scrV=8#viii.xxxi-p116.1
1442. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=62&scrV=11#x.i-p45.4
1443. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=63&scrV=0#vii.v-p192.1
1444. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=63&scrV=2#viii.xxiii-p125.8
1445. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=63&scrV=2#xi.ix-p150.1
1446. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=63&scrV=4#xi.ix-p370.20
1447. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=63&scrV=4#x.vi-p37.2
1448. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=64&scrV=4#vii.xi-p100.1
1449. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=64&scrV=4#xi.ix-p370.24
1450. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=64&scrV=4#ix.xvii-p30.1
1451. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=65&scrV=19#xi.ix-p29.7
1452. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=65&scrV=20#x.vi-p67.1
1453. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=65&scrV=22#xi.ix-p118.1
1454. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=65&scrV=25#xi.ix-p267.1
1455. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=66&scrV=7#xi.ix-p18.1
1456. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=66&scrV=15#vii.xi-p141.1
1457. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=66&scrV=15#viii.xxxi-p119.1
1458. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Isa&scrCh=68&scrV=22#xi.ix-p6.11
1459. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=2&scrV=13#viii.viii-p38.1
1460. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=3&scrV=0#xi.ix-p368.16
1461. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=3&scrV=12#ix.xvii-p32.1
1462. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=3&scrV=14#xi.ix-p368.19
1463. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=3&scrV=22#viii.xvii-p37.1
1464. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=4&scrV=0#xi.ix-p368.22
1465. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=5&scrV=12#viii.xviii-p89.5
1466. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=5&scrV=19#xi.ix-p306.2
1467. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=5&scrV=19#xi.ix-p339.1
1468. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=7&scrV=2#xi.iv-p50.1
1469. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=7&scrV=22#vii.xii-p5.4
1470. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=8&scrV=8#ix.xviii-p52.4
1471. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=9&scrV=12#vi.viii-p48.1
1472. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=11&scrV=1#vii.viii-p87.1
1473. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=12&scrV=5#viii.vii-p47.2
1474. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=12&scrV=5#ix.xix-p17.5
1475. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=13&scrV=17#viii.xxxi-p109.1
1476. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=13&scrV=22#vii.iv-p63.5
1477. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=14&scrV=5#ix.xiii-p31.1
1478. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=15&scrV=9#x.xv-p139.5
1479. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=16&scrV=13#vii.iv-p69.9
1480. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=16&scrV=13#xi.ix-p370.5
1481. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=17&scrV=0#xi.xvi-p11.2
1482. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=19&scrV=0#x.xiv-p62.1
1483. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=23&scrV=5#vii.iv-p94.2
1484. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=23&scrV=5#vii.ix-p36.1
1485. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=23&scrV=29#vi.iii-p34.2
1486. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=25&scrV=30#viii.xxxi-p110.1
1487. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=30&scrV=6#xi.ix-p370.2
1488. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=30&scrV=9#xi.ix-p370.9
1489. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=30&scrV=9#xi.ix-p276.1
1490. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=30&scrV=11#viii.iii-p73.1
1491. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=30&scrV=21#xi.ix-p370.8
1492. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=31&scrV=8#vii.v-p169.2
1493. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=31&scrV=9#vii.v-p84.1
1494. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=31&scrV=13#xi.ix-p27.1
1495. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=31&scrV=13#xi.ix-p31.1
1496. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=31&scrV=13#xi.ix-p132.5
1497. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=31&scrV=15#vii.viii-p85.1
1498. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=31&scrV=31#viii.iii-p24.1
1499. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=31&scrV=31#xi.xiii-p3.2
1500. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=31&scrV=31#xi.xiii-p8.3
1501. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=31&scrV=34#viii.xxxii-p59.2
1502. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=31&scrV=34#viii.xxxii-p60.3
1503. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=33&scrV=13#vi.vi-p44.4
1504. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=33&scrV=18#vii.xii-p4.1
1505. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=36&scrV=23#ix.xviii-p68.1
1506. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jer&scrCh=40&scrV=7#vii.ix-p32.5
1507. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=1&scrV=2#xi.ix-p177.1
1508. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=1&scrV=5#vii.x-p32.1
1509. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=1&scrV=5#viii.vi-p15.2
1510. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=1&scrV=13#vii.v-p97.1
1511. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=1&scrV=16#vii.v-p208.1
1512. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=1&scrV=16#vii.vi-p29.1
1513. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=1&scrV=16#xi.ix-p370.6
1514. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=1&scrV=16#ix.viii-p27.1
1515. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=1&scrV=16#xi.ix-p23.3
1516. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=1&scrV=16#xi.ix-p81.1
1517. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=1&scrV=16#xi.ix-p108.1
1518. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=1&scrV=16#xi.ix-p169.1
1519. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=1&scrV=16#xi.ix-p273.1
1520. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=1&scrV=16#xi.ix-p275.3
1521. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=1&scrV=16#xi.ix-p296.2
1522. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=2&scrV=0#xi.ix-p283.1
1523. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=2&scrV=1#xi.xii-p37.1
1524. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=2&scrV=2#viii.xxii-p11.1
1525. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=2&scrV=2#viii.xxii-p12.1
1526. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=2&scrV=2#viii.xxii-p14.1
1527. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=2&scrV=2#x.iv-p154.2
1528. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=2&scrV=2#xi.ix-p43.1
1529. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=2&scrV=17#x.xv-p181.1
1530. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=2&scrV=20#x.iv-p152.8
1531. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=2&scrV=22#xi.ix-p364.5
1532. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=3&scrV=23#xi.xii-p18.1
1533. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=3&scrV=28#ix.iii-p104.2
1534. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=3&scrV=28#x.xv-p140.1
1535. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=3&scrV=28#x.xv-p140.3
1536. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=3&scrV=49#xi.ix-p198.1
1537. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=3&scrV=49#xi.ix-p198.3
1538. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=3&scrV=50#viii.xi-p22.2
1539. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=4&scrV=0#xi.ix-p284.1
1540. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=4&scrV=2#x.v-p85.2
1541. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=4&scrV=4#vii.ix-p32.3
1542. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=4&scrV=20#vii.v-p141.1
1543. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Lam&scrCh=5&scrV=21#vii.v-p81.1
1544. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=1&scrV=1#viii.xxiii-p135.6
1545. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=1&scrV=7#xi.xii-p24.1
1546. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=1&scrV=14#xi.v-p73.1
1547. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=1&scrV=14#xi.v-p75.1
1548. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=1&scrV=18#xi.ix-p232.3
1549. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=4&scrV=14#xi.v-p38.1
1550. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=5&scrV=2#x.vii-p39.3
1551. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=8&scrV=16#viii.x-p30.2
1552. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=9&scrV=4#xi.xii-p29.1
1553. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=10&scrV=2#xi.xii-p28.1
1554. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=10&scrV=7#xi.xii-p28.1
1555. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=11&scrV=0#xi.ix-p285.1
1556. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=14&scrV=18#xi.v-p38.4
1557. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=14&scrV=31#xi.v-p38.2
1558. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=15&scrV=5#ix.xix-p17.9
1559. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=16&scrV=3#xi.xii-p40.1
1560. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=16&scrV=6#vii.iv-p90.2
1561. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=16&scrV=7#vii.iv-p94.3
1562. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=16&scrV=9#x.x-p62.1
1563. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=16&scrV=10#x.x-p63.1
1564. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=16&scrV=55#xi.ix-p29.3
1565. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=17&scrV=23#viii.xxiii-p116.1
1566. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=18&scrV=20#vii.v-p41.1
1567. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=22&scrV=24#viii.viii-p64.1
1568. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=22&scrV=24#viii.viii-p64.3
1569. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=27&scrV=5#ix.i-p13.3
1570. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=28&scrV=17#vii.iv-p63.6
1571. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=29&scrV=21#xi.ix-p368.28
1572. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=29&scrV=21#xi.ix-p363.3
1573. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=31&scrV=6#viii.xxiii-p115.1
1574. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=31&scrV=12#viii.xxiii-p115.1
1575. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=32&scrV=14#xi.ix-p368.27
1576. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=32&scrV=19#xi.xii-p39.4
1577. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=34&scrV=0#ix.x-p5.2
1578. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=34&scrV=24#vii.iv-p43.2
1579. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=36&scrV=25#xi.ix-p23.6
1580. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=37&scrV=0#vii.v-p109.2
1581. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=37&scrV=3#viii.xxxvi-p19.1
1582. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=37&scrV=25#xi.ix-p370.10
1583. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=43&scrV=7#ix.xxi-p90.1
1584. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=44&scrV=19#xi.v-p38.3
1585. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=45&scrV=11#ix.xviii-p30.1
1586. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=46&scrV=21#xi.v-p57.7
1587. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=47&scrV=9#xi.ix-p29.2
1588. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Ezek&scrCh=48&scrV=19#xi.ix-p267.2
1589. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=1&scrV=5#xi.v-p13.2
1590. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=2&scrV=0#xi.ix-p296.1
1591. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=2&scrV=2#xi.ix-p248.2
1592. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=2&scrV=21#viii.xxiii-p135.3
1593. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=2&scrV=22#ix.viii-p29.1
1594. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=2&scrV=29#xi.v-p57.30
1595. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=2&scrV=42#xi.ix-p116.3
1596. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=3&scrV=2#ix.xiv-p12.3
1597. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=4&scrV=12#viii.xxiii-p115.2
1598. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=4&scrV=14#viii.xxiii-p115.2
1599. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=4&scrV=21#viii.xxiii-p115.2
1600. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=4&scrV=22#viii.xxiii-p115.2
1601. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=4&scrV=33#vi.iii-p44.4
1602. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=6&scrV=0#xi.v-p21.1
1603. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=7&scrV=9#vii.v-p189.1
1604. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=7&scrV=9#viii.xxiii-p125.6
1605. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=7&scrV=9#ix.xxiii-p43.2
1606. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=7&scrV=13#vii.iv-p69.8
1607. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=7&scrV=13#vii.v-p209.1
1608. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=7&scrV=13#viii.xxvii-p71.1
1609. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=7&scrV=13#viii.xxvii-p78.1
1610. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=7&scrV=13#xi.ix-p368.38
1611. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=7&scrV=13#xi.ix-p73.6
1612. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=7&scrV=14#ix.xxiii-p43.2
1613. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=7&scrV=23#vi.vii-p42.1
1614. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=7&scrV=25#xi.ix-p368.10
1615. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=7&scrV=27#ix.xxiii-p43.2
1616. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=9&scrV=0#xi.ix-p302.1
1617. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=9&scrV=21#vii.iii-p56.1
1618. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=9&scrV=24#xi.v-p31.1
1619. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=10&scrV=13#vii.iii-p58.1
1620. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=10&scrV=13#xi.xii-p27.3
1621. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=10&scrV=20#vii.iii-p58.1
1622. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=12&scrV=1#ix.v-p55.3
1623. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=12&scrV=2#xi.xviii-p7.3
1624. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=12&scrV=2#x.iv-p17.1
1625. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=12&scrV=4#xi.ix-p21.1
1626. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=12&scrV=7#xi.ix-p368.23
1627. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=12&scrV=11#vii.v-p161.1
1628. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=12&scrV=11#xi.ix-p304.1
1629. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=12&scrV=11#xi.ix-p59.5
1630. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=12&scrV=12#xi.ix-p304.2
1631. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Dan&scrCh=12&scrV=13#x.iv-p17.1
1632. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=2&scrV=0#xi.ix-p305.1
1633. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=2&scrV=0#xi.ix-p306.1
1634. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=2&scrV=0#xi.ix-p307.1
1635. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=2&scrV=20#xi.ix-p29.6
1636. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=3&scrV=4#viii.xxx-p55.1
1637. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=3&scrV=5#vii.xi-p98.2
1638. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=4&scrV=11#xi.v-p57.23
1639. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=6&scrV=0#xi.ix-p309.1
1640. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=6&scrV=2#x.xvii-p11.2
1641. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=6&scrV=2#xi.ix-p368.6
1642. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=6&scrV=3#viii.x-p143.1
1643. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=6&scrV=6#viii.xvii-p118.1
1644. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=7&scrV=10#vi.viii-p57.3
1645. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=9&scrV=14#x.xv-p44.1
1646. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=10&scrV=8#x.xv-p46.1
1647. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=11&scrV=1#vii.viii-p84.1
1648. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=11&scrV=11#vi.vi-p39.1
1649. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=12&scrV=10#viii.xxiii-p135.7
1650. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=12&scrV=12#viii.xxvii-p90.1
1651. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hos&scrCh=14&scrV=7#vi.vi-p44.5
1652. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Joel&scrCh=1&scrV=7#ix.xvi-p32.1
1653. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Joel&scrCh=2&scrV=0#xi.ix-p312.1
1654. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Joel&scrCh=2&scrV=10#x.xv-p139.1
1655. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Joel&scrCh=2&scrV=31#x.xv-p139.1
1656. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Joel&scrCh=3&scrV=18#vii.v-p178.1
1657. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Amos&scrCh=3&scrV=5#viii.xxvii-p109.1
1658. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Amos&scrCh=4&scrV=0#xi.ix-p314.1
1659. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Amos&scrCh=4&scrV=6#xi.v-p57.24
1660. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Amos&scrCh=4&scrV=7#xi.ix-p368.2
1661. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Amos&scrCh=5&scrV=3#viii.vii-p47.3
1662. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Amos&scrCh=5&scrV=18#xi.ix-p370.11
1663. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Amos&scrCh=5&scrV=19#xi.ix-p370.1
1664. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Amos&scrCh=5&scrV=20#viii.xix-p45.1
1665. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Amos&scrCh=5&scrV=21#vii.xii-p5.5
1666. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Amos&scrCh=6&scrV=6#viii.xxi-p50.7
1667. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Amos&scrCh=8&scrV=9#x.xv-p139.2
1668. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Amos&scrCh=9&scrV=0#xi.ix-p317.1
1669. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Amos&scrCh=9&scrV=0#xi.ix-p317.2
1670. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Amos&scrCh=9&scrV=9#x.xii-p13.1
1671. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Amos&scrCh=9&scrV=11#vii.xi-p117.3
1672. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Amos&scrCh=9&scrV=11#xi.ix-p360.1
1673. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Amos&scrCh=9&scrV=11#xi.ix-p368.1
1674. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Amos&scrCh=9&scrV=14#xi.v-p57.8
1675. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Amos&scrCh=13&scrV=16#xi.iv-p54.1
1676. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mic&scrCh=2&scrV=0#xi.ix-p319.1
1677. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mic&scrCh=2&scrV=6#viii.ii-p58.1
1678. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mic&scrCh=2&scrV=13#xi.ix-p14.5
1679. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mic&scrCh=4&scrV=0#xi.ix-p320.1
1680. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mic&scrCh=4&scrV=2#xi.v-p57.25
1681. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mic&scrCh=4&scrV=7#vii.xi-p73.1
1682. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mic&scrCh=5&scrV=2#vii.viii-p25.1
1683. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mic&scrCh=5&scrV=2#vii.viii-p29.1
1684. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mic&scrCh=5&scrV=2#vii.v-p117.2
1685. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mic&scrCh=5&scrV=2#vii.v-p151.2
1686. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mic&scrCh=5&scrV=2#vii.vi-p5.1
1687. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mic&scrCh=5&scrV=3#xi.ix-p369.2
1688. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mic&scrCh=7&scrV=19#viii.iii-p40.1
1689. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Nah&scrCh=1&scrV=3#ix.i-p56.1
1690. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Nah&scrCh=1&scrV=3#x.xv-p140.2
1691. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Nah&scrCh=1&scrV=4#viii.xxiv-p20.2
1692. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Nah&scrCh=1&scrV=4#viii.xxiv-p10.3
1693. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Nah&scrCh=1&scrV=6#vii.xi-p117.4
1694. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Nah&scrCh=2&scrV=0#xi.ix-p326.1
1695. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hab&scrCh=2&scrV=0#xi.ix-p327.1
1696. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hab&scrCh=2&scrV=3#xi.ix-p368.9
1697. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hab&scrCh=2&scrV=3#xi.ix-p368.13
1698. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hab&scrCh=2&scrV=9#ix.xviii-p102.1
1699. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hab&scrCh=2&scrV=19#viii.x-p141.1
1700. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hab&scrCh=3&scrV=2#ix.xxiii-p41.2
1701. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hab&scrCh=3&scrV=3#vii.v-p37.1
1702. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hab&scrCh=3&scrV=8#viii.xxiv-p10.4
1703. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zeph&scrCh=1&scrV=12#xi.ix-p248.7
1704. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zeph&scrCh=3&scrV=8#xi.ix-p195.1
1705. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zeph&scrCh=3&scrV=9#xi.ix-p317.3
1706. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zeph&scrCh=3&scrV=11#xi.ix-p368.30
1707. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hag&scrCh=1&scrV=8#xi.ii-p10.6
1708. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hag&scrCh=2&scrV=0#xi.ix-p331.1
1709. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Hag&scrCh=2&scrV=6#xi.ix-p368.12
1710. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=1&scrV=1#x.iv-p152.10
1711. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=1&scrV=7#x.iv-p152.10
1712. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=2&scrV=0#xi.ix-p333.1
1713. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=2&scrV=4#x.iii-p78.1
1714. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=2&scrV=10#xi.ix-p250.4
1715. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=3&scrV=8#vii.iv-p69.3
1716. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=3&scrV=8#vii.iv-p94.4
1717. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=4&scrV=0#xi.ix-p336.1
1718. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=4&scrV=7#xi.ix-p131.1
1719. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=4&scrV=7#xi.ix-p232.4
1720. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=5&scrV=8#xi.xii-p57.2
1721. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=6&scrV=0#xi.ix-p338.1
1722. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=8&scrV=10#xi.ix-p368.25
1723. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=8&scrV=12#xi.ix-p6.13
1724. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=8&scrV=23#viii.i-p12.1
1725. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=8&scrV=23#xi.ix-p361.2
1726. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=9&scrV=0#xi.ix-p342.1
1727. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=9&scrV=9#xi.ix-p368.39
1728. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=9&scrV=9#x.i-p44.1
1729. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=9&scrV=9#x.i-p45.5
1730. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=9&scrV=9#xi.ix-p23.5
1731. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=9&scrV=9#xi.ix-p23.7
1732. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=9&scrV=9#xi.ix-p35.4
1733. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=9&scrV=9#xi.ix-p199.1
1734. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=9&scrV=9#xi.ix-p250.2
1735. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=9&scrV=9#xi.ix-p250.3
1736. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=10&scrV=3#vii.xi-p117.5
1737. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=10&scrV=6#vi.vi-p44.6
1738. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=11&scrV=0#ix.x-p5.3
1739. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=11&scrV=0#xi.ix-p346.1
1740. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=11&scrV=1#vii.x-p29.1
1741. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=11&scrV=9#xi.ix-p370.16
1742. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=11&scrV=12#x.viii-p43.1
1743. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=11&scrV=12#xi.ix-p23.10
1744. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=12&scrV=10#vi.vi-p47.2
1745. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=12&scrV=10#x.xv-p200.1
1746. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=12&scrV=10#xi.v-p57.26
1747. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=12&scrV=12#x.vi-p25.1
1748. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=13&scrV=4#vii.xi-p59.1
1749. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=13&scrV=7#x.xii-p6.1
1750. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=13&scrV=9#xi.xviii-p7.1
1751. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=14&scrV=2#xi.ix-p59.3
1752. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=14&scrV=2#xi.ix-p116.4
1753. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=14&scrV=7#vii.v-p97.2
1754. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=14&scrV=8#x.vi-p59.2
1755. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=14&scrV=8#xi.ix-p14.1
1756. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=14&scrV=9#vii.xi-p97.1
1757. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Zech&scrCh=14&scrV=12#viii.xv-p55.1
1758. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=1&scrV=8#viii.xii-p23.6
1759. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=2&scrV=12#xi.v-p57.27
1760. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=2&scrV=13#vii.iii-p25.1
1761. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=2&scrV=13#ix.xxii-p42.1
1762. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=2&scrV=16#ix.xxii-p47.1
1763. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=3&scrV=1#vii.iii-p40.1
1764. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=3&scrV=1#xi.ix-p364.2
1765. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=3&scrV=1#viii.v-p54.1
1766. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=3&scrV=2#xi.viii-p11.1
1767. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=3&scrV=7#xi.ix-p368.18
1768. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=3&scrV=16#ix.iii-p104.1
1769. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=3&scrV=16#xi.v-p57.9
1770. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=3&scrV=23#xi.v-p57.9
1771. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=3&scrV=23#xi.v-p12.1
1772. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=4&scrV=0#xi.ix-p356.1
1773. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=4&scrV=1#xi.ix-p356.3
1774. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=4&scrV=5#vii.iv-p69.7
1775. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=4&scrV=5#xi.ix-p364.3
1776. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=4&scrV=5#vii.iii-p42.1
1777. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mal&scrCh=4&scrV=6#vii.iii-p66.1
1778. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=1&scrV=0#vii.iv-p1.1
1779. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=1&scrV=19#vii.iv-p53.1
1780. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=1&scrV=21#vii.iv-p47.1
1781. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=1&scrV=24#vii.x-p105.1
1782. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=1&scrV=25#vii.iv-p75.3
1783. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=1&scrV=25#vii.vi-p1.1
1784. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=1&scrV=25#viii.v-p6.1
1785. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=2&scrV=0#vii.viii-p68.1
1786. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=2&scrV=1#vii.viii-p1.1
1787. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=2&scrV=4#vi.viii-p11.1
1788. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=2&scrV=6#vii.viii-p28.1
1789. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=2&scrV=7#vii.viii-p23.1
1790. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=2&scrV=15#vii.v-p8.1
1791. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=2&scrV=19#vii.ix-p1.1
1792. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=2&scrV=22#vii.ix-p28.3
1793. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=2&scrV=22#vii.vi-p16.1
1794. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=3&scrV=1#vii.xi-p1.1
1795. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=3&scrV=2#vii.xi-p108.1
1796. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=3&scrV=2#x.v-p43.1
1797. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=3&scrV=4#vii.xi-p57.1
1798. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=3&scrV=7#viii.ii-p11.1
1799. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=3&scrV=7#viii.ii-p15.1
1800. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=3&scrV=7#viii.ii-p200.1
1801. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=3&scrV=12#vii.xi-p142.3
1802. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=3&scrV=13#vii.xii-p1.1
1803. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=3&scrV=14#vii.xii-p20.1
1804. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=3&scrV=14#vii.xii-p32.3
1805. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=3&scrV=17#ix.i-p60.1
1806. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=0#viii.ix-p17.1
1807. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=0#viii.xxxv-p26.2
1808. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=1#viii.i-p1.1
1809. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=4#vi.iv-p49.4
1810. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=12#viii.ix-p1.1
1811. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=12#viii.ix-p5.1
1812. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=13#viii.vii-p26.1
1813. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=13#viii.v-p3.1
1814. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=13#viii.ix-p20.2
1815. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=13#viii.xi-p1.1
1816. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=13#viii.xi-p48.1
1817. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=13#viii.ix-p15.1
1818. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=17#viii.ix-p8.1
1819. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=18#viii.xi-p46.1
1820. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=18#viii.xiii-p6.1
1821. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=18#viii.vii-p27.1
1822. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=18#viii.xiii-p1.1
1823. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=18#viii.xxxv-p25.1
1824. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=20#viii.xiii-p26.1
1825. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=22#viii.xi-p46.1
1826. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=22#viii.xiii-p26.1
1827. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=4&scrV=23#viii.xv-p1.1
1828. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=0#viii.xviii-p2.1
1829. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=0#viii.xviii-p23.1
1830. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=1#viii.xviii-p11.1
1831. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=1#viii.xviii-p5.3
1832. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=3#viii.xviii-p24.1
1833. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=6#viii.xviii-p77.1
1834. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=13#ix.iii-p65.2
1835. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=13#viii.xviii-p27.1
1836. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=15#viii.xviii-p77.1
1837. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=15#ix.xi-p67.1
1838. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=16#x.vii-p16.1
1839. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=17#viii.xviii-p77.1
1840. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=17#viii.xviii-p81.2
1841. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=17#viii.xviii-p83.1
1842. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=18#vii.ix-p124.1
1843. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=18#viii.xviii-p81.1
1844. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=19#vii.xi-p112.1
1845. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=20#ix.xix-p63.1
1846. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=21#viii.xviii-p90.1
1847. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=22#viii.xviii-p90.2
1848. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=25#viii.xviii-p77.1
1849. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=25#ix.xiii-p68.1
1850. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=29#viii.xviii-p77.1
1851. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=31#viii.xviii-p77.1
1852. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=42#viii.xviii-p67.5
1853. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=46#viii.xviii-p77.1
1854. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=5&scrV=47#viii.xviii-p77.1
1855. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=6&scrV=0#viii.xviii-p29.1
1856. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=6&scrV=0#viii.xviii-p98.1
1857. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=6&scrV=2#vii.vii-p34.1
1858. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=6&scrV=6#ix.xiii-p13.3
1859. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=6&scrV=9#viii.xviii-p69.1
1860. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=6&scrV=13#viii.i-p22.3
1861. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=6&scrV=19#ix.xiii-p39.1
1862. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=6&scrV=25#ix.xiii-p29.1
1863. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=6&scrV=33#vii.xi-p107.1
1864. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=7&scrV=10#viii.xiii-p9.1
1865. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=7&scrV=12#viii.xviii-p65.1
1866. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=7&scrV=12#ix.xv-p19.1
1867. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=7&scrV=13#ix.xx-p6.1
1868. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=7&scrV=21#ix.xx-p21.1
1869. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=7&scrV=21#viii.xviii-p114.1
1870. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=7&scrV=21#ix.xx-p7.1
1871. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=7&scrV=22#viii.xviii-p16.1
1872. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=7&scrV=23#ix.xx-p22.1
1873. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=7&scrV=25#viii.xxiii-p3.1
1874. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=7&scrV=28#viii.xiv-p6.1
1875. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=7&scrV=28#viii.xiv-p7.1
1876. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=7&scrV=29#ix.iv-p52.1
1877. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=0#ix.xx-p6.2
1878. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=1#viii.xix-p1.1
1879. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=2#ix.xxii-p13.1
1880. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=4#viii.xxvi-p16.1
1881. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=5#viii.ix-p37.1
1882. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=5#viii.v-p12.1
1883. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=5#viii.xix-p1.1
1884. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=5#viii.xix-p33.1
1885. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=6#viii.xix-p36.1
1886. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=7#viii.xix-p31.1
1887. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=11#ix.xx-p26.1
1888. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=11#ix.xxii-p21.1
1889. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=12#viii.xix-p48.1
1890. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=12#viii.xix-p54.1
1891. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=14#viii.v-p16.1
1892. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=14#viii.xiv-p5.1
1893. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=17#viii.xiv-p46.2
1894. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=17#viii.xii-p22.3
1895. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=17#viii.iii-p35.1
1896. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=18#ix.iv-p46.1
1897. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=18#viii.xxiv-p1.1
1898. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=19#ix.iv-p1.3
1899. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=19#ix.iv-p48.1
1900. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=23#viii.xxiv-p1.1
1901. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=28#viii.xxv-p9.1
1902. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=28#viii.xxv-p16.1
1903. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=8&scrV=28#viii.xxv-p1.1
1904. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=0#viii.xxii-p37.2
1905. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=0#viii.xxxiv-p37.1
1906. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=1#viii.ix-p23.3
1907. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=1#viii.xi-p42.1
1908. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=1#viii.xvi-p1.1
1909. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=2#viii.xvi-p31.1
1910. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=9#viii.xvii-p1.1
1911. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=10#ix.xvii-p5.1
1912. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=11#viii.xxii-p55.1
1913. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=13#viii.xvii-p2.1
1914. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=14#viii.xxviii-p55.1
1915. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=14#viii.xvii-p113.1
1916. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=14#viii.xxviii-p1.2
1917. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=14#viii.xxviii-p56.1
1918. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=15#viii.iv-p35.1
1919. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=15#x.viii-p9.1
1920. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=16#viii.xi-p54.1
1921. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=16#viii.xxviii-p79.1
1922. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=18#viii.xxvi-p1.1
1923. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=20#vi.vi-p22.5
1924. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=20#vii.xii-p9.3
1925. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=27#viii.xxii-p34.1
1926. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=27#viii.xxxiv-p35.1
1927. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=30#viii.xxvi-p16.4
1928. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=32#viii.xxii-p1.2
1929. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=32#viii.xxii-p34.2
1930. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=32#viii.xxxiv-p36.1
1931. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=33#viii.xxii-p50.1
1932. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=34#viii.xxii-p35.1
1933. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=34#viii.xxii-p42.1
1934. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=34#viii.xxii-p51.1
1935. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=35#viii.xxii-p4.2
1936. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=36#viii.xxvii-p24.1
1937. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=36#ix.v-p1.2
1938. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=36#ix.v-p15.1
1939. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=36#viii.xxvii-p21.1
1940. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=9&scrV=38#x.xii-p19.1
1941. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=0#ix.xiii-p5.1
1942. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=0#ix.xiii-p19.1
1943. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=1#viii.xxvii-p66.1
1944. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=2#viii.xvii-p1.4
1945. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=2#viii.xvii-p124.1
1946. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=5#ix.v-p7.1
1947. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=5#viii.vii-p32.1
1948. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=5#viii.xxvii-p25.1
1949. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=5#viii.xxvii-p32.1
1950. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=7#ix.v-p21.1
1951. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=8#viii.xiv-p13.1
1952. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=10#viii.xxvi-p42.1
1953. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=10#viii.xxvi-p55.1
1954. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=13#ix.v-p29.1
1955. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=16#viii.xxvii-p67.1
1956. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=17#viii.xxvii-p75.1
1957. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=18#ix.xiii-p6.6
1958. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=18#ix.xiii-p20.1
1959. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=21#ix.xiii-p21.1
1960. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=24#viii.xxvii-p94.1
1961. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=25#xi.ix-p279.3
1962. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=26#viii.xxvii-p23.1
1963. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=26#viii.xxvii-p104.1
1964. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=26#ix.xiii-p6.2
1965. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=34#viii.xxvii-p117.1
1966. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=35#xi.ix-p7.1
1967. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=37#ix.xx-p62.1
1968. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=10&scrV=40#viii.xxvii-p126.1
1969. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=1#viii.xxviii-p4.1
1970. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=2#viii.iii-p5.5
1971. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=2#viii.xxviii-p1.5
1972. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=2#viii.xxviii-p84.2
1973. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=5#viii.xxviii-p95.1
1974. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=7#ix.v-p12.1
1975. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=11#vii.xi-p109.1
1976. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=12#vii.xi-p110.1
1977. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=12#ix.xviii-p118.1
1978. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=12#ix.xx-p18.1
1979. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=12#viii.xxviii-p102.1
1980. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=13#viii.xxiii-p61.1
1981. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=14#viii.iii-p10.1
1982. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=14#viii.iii-p22.1
1983. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=14#ix.ii-p10.1
1984. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=14#viii.xxviii-p103.1
1985. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=16#viii.xxi-p7.1
1986. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=16#viii.xxii-p39.1
1987. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=16#ix.v-p33.1
1988. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=17#viii.xxii-p49.1
1989. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=19#vii.iii-p43.2
1990. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=20#ix.v-p13.1
1991. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=20#ix.v-p36.1
1992. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=20#viii.xxi-p5.1
1993. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=20#viii.xxi-p8.1
1994. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=21#viii.xxxi-p13.1
1995. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=25#x.xi-p108.1
1996. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=25#ix.v-p1.4
1997. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=27#viii.xvi-p13.1
1998. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=27#viii.xxxiv-p1.3
1999. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=28#ix.v-p62.1
2000. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=11&scrV=28#viii.xxi-p9.1
2001. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=0#viii.xxii-p37.4
2002. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=0#viii.xxxv-p26.1
2003. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=1#viii.xxxv-p1.1
2004. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=1#ix.xiii-p88.1
2005. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=7#viii.xvii-p119.1
2006. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=9#ix.xiii-p85.1
2007. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=11#ix.xiii-p97.1
2008. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=12#viii.xxxv-p72.1
2009. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=13#viii.xxxv-p78.1
2010. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=14#ix.xi-p25.1
2011. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=14#ix.xiii-p90.1
2012. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=18#vi.iv-p98.1
2013. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=22#viii.xxii-p48.1
2014. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=22#ix.xi-p23.2
2015. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=22#viii.xxii-p34.4
2016. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=22#viii.xxiii-p16.2
2017. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=22#ix.xi-p1.1
2018. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=22#ix.xi-p6.2
2019. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=23#viii.xxxiv-p38.4
2020. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=24#viii.xxiii-p9.1
2021. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=25#ix.xi-p30.1
2022. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=25#viii.i-p22.1
2023. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=25#ix.xi-p35.1
2024. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=30#ix.iii-p57.1
2025. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=31#ix.xiii-p6.4
2026. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=31#ix.xiii-p22.2
2027. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=33#ix.xi-p45.1
2028. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=38#ix.xi-p47.1
2029. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=38#viii.v-p62.1
2030. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=39#ix.xi-p52.1
2031. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=40#x.viii-p11.1
2032. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=46#vii.x-p105.3
2033. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=46#viii.xxii-p54.1
2034. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=46#viii.xxii-p61.1
2035. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=46#ix.xi-p63.1
2036. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=46#viii.iv-p68.1
2037. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=12&scrV=46#viii.xxii-p1.4
2038. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=0#viii.xxiii-p11.1
2039. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=0#viii.xxiii-p55.1
2040. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=0#viii.xxiii-p70.1
2041. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=1#viii.xxiii-p8.1
2042. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=1#viii.xxiii-p62.1
2043. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=1#viii.xxiii-p1.1
2044. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=3#viii.xxiii-p56.1
2045. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=3#vii.xi-p102.1
2046. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=10#viii.xxiii-p59.1
2047. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=11#viii.v-p61.1
2048. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=13#viii.xxiii-p65.1
2049. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=16#ix.v-p64.1
2050. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=16#ix.v-p81.1
2051. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=16#viii.xxiii-p125.2
2052. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=17#viii.xxiii-p135.1
2053. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=18#viii.xxiii-p72.1
2054. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=33#viii.xxiii-p47.1
2055. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=34#viii.xxiii-p57.1
2056. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=36#viii.xxiii-p60.1
2057. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=36#viii.xxiii-p96.1
2058. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=36#viii.xxiii-p123.1
2059. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=44#viii.xxiii-p60.1
2060. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=54#viii.xi-p37.1
2061. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=54#viii.xxvii-p1.1
2062. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=13&scrV=55#vii.x-p114.1
2063. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=1#viii.xxviii-p27.1
2064. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=1#viii.xxviii-p1.7
2065. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=3#viii.xxviii-p36.1
2066. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=5#viii.xxviii-p35.1
2067. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=8#viii.xxviii-p120.1
2068. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=12#viii.xxviii-p7.1
2069. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=13#viii.xxix-p18.2
2070. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=13#viii.xxix-p1.1
2071. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=14#viii.xii-p23.3
2072. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=14#viii.xxix-p25.1
2073. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=15#viii.xxv-p4.1
2074. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=17#viii.xxix-p36.2
2075. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=19#viii.xxix-p52.1
2076. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=19#viii.xxxvi-p12.1
2077. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=20#viii.xxxvi-p8.3
2078. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=22#viii.xxv-p3.1
2079. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=22#viii.xxx-p25.1
2080. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=22#viii.xxx-p42.1
2081. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=22#viii.xxx-p1.1
2082. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=23#viii.xxx-p6.1
2083. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=23#x.ii-p3.3
2084. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=24#viii.xxx-p27.1
2085. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=24#viii.xxx-p32.1
2086. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=26#viii.xxx-p16.1
2087. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=33#viii.xxxvii-p39.1
2088. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=14&scrV=34#viii.xxxi-p25.1
2089. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=1#viii.xxxi-p34.1
2090. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=1#viii.xxxi-p36.1
2091. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=1#ix.xii-p55.1
2092. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=1#viii.xxxi-p1.1
2093. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=2#viii.ii-p50.3
2094. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=3#viii.xxxi-p123.1
2095. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=6#viii.xxxi-p123.1
2096. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=10#viii.xxxi-p40.1
2097. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=10#viii.xxxi-p165.1
2098. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=10#ix.xii-p56.1
2099. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=11#vi.viii-p101.1
2100. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=12#viii.xxxii-p79.1
2101. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=12#viii.xxxvii-p23.2
2102. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=12#viii.xxxi-p37.1
2103. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=12#viii.xxxi-p41.1
2104. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=15#viii.xxiii-p35.1
2105. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=15#viii.xxxi-p42.1
2106. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=17#viii.xxxi-p171.3
2107. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=18#vi.viii-p101.1
2108. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=19#viii.xxxi-p168.2
2109. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=21#viii.xxxi-p3.1
2110. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=21#viii.xxxiii-p5.1
2111. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=21#x.x-p7.1
2112. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=21#viii.xxxiii-p1.1
2113. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=22#viii.xxxiv-p38.1
2114. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=22#x.x-p50.1
2115. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=23#viii.xxxiii-p9.1
2116. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=28#viii.xxxiii-p26.1
2117. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=29#viii.xxxiv-p1.1
2118. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=29#viii.xxxiv-p8.1
2119. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=32#viii.xxxvi-p1.1
2120. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=36#viii.xxix-p60.1
2121. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=15&scrV=39#viii.xxxvi-p22.1
2122. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=16&scrV=1#x.iv-p4.1
2123. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=16&scrV=1#ix.xi-p49.1
2124. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=16&scrV=2#viii.xxxvi-p39.1
2125. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=16&scrV=2#ix.xiii-p63.1
2126. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=16&scrV=3#ix.xxiii-p22.1
2127. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=16&scrV=6#viii.viii-p78.1
2128. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=16&scrV=9#viii.xxxvi-p8.7
2129. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=16&scrV=13#viii.xxxvii-p1.1
2130. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=16&scrV=16#viii.xxxvii-p35.1
2131. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=16&scrV=16#x.xii-p16.1
2132. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=16&scrV=19#x.xvii-p75.1
2133. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=16&scrV=21#ix.xxiii-p54.1
2134. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=16&scrV=21#x.viii-p15.1
2135. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=16&scrV=23#ix.xxiii-p61.1
2136. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=16&scrV=24#viii.xxxvii-p82.1
2137. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=16&scrV=28#viii.xxvii-p84.1
2138. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=16&scrV=28#viii.xxxvii-p85.1
2139. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=17&scrV=1#x.xii-p33.1
2140. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=17&scrV=1#ix.i-p1.1
2141. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=17&scrV=9#ix.ii-p1.1
2142. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=17&scrV=12#viii.iii-p21.2
2143. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=17&scrV=20#viii.xxiii-p105.1
2144. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=17&scrV=20#ix.xx-p75.2
2145. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=17&scrV=21#viii.xiv-p15.1
2146. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=17&scrV=21#ix.ii-p24.1
2147. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=17&scrV=22#ix.iii-p1.1
2148. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=17&scrV=22#x.viii-p16.1
2149. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=17&scrV=23#ix.iii-p39.1
2150. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=17&scrV=25#ix.iii-p24.1
2151. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=0#viii.xxiii-p18.1
2152. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=1#ix.iii-p38.1
2153. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=1#ix.xx-p84.1
2154. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=1#ix.xix-p71.1
2155. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=2#ix.iii-p67.1
2156. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=3#viii.vi-p19.1
2157. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=3#ix.xxii-p81.1
2158. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=5#viii.xxvi-p81.1
2159. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=6#ix.xx-p75.1
2160. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=8#ix.iii-p73.1
2161. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=11#ix.iii-p91.1
2162. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=12#ix.xvii-p21.1
2163. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=15#ix.iii-p41.1
2164. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=15#ix.iii-p95.1
2165. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=15#x.xi-p87.1
2166. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=15#ix.xix-p70.1
2167. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=17#viii.xxxvii-p64.2
2168. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=19#ix.iii-p103.1
2169. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=19#ix.iii-p105.1
2170. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=19#x.xi-p57.1
2171. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=21#ix.iii-p41.1
2172. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=21#ix.iii-p43.1
2173. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=21#ix.iii-p107.1
2174. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=21#x.ii-p24.1
2175. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=23#viii.xxi-p48.1
2176. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=23#ix.xix-p1.2
2177. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=23#ix.xix-p66.1
2178. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=18&scrV=35#ix.xix-p82.1
2179. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=1#ix.iv-p12.1
2180. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=1#ix.xix-p67.1
2181. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=1#ix.xxii-p1.1
2182. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=1#ix.xxii-p3.1
2183. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=1#ix.xxii-p32.1
2184. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=3#ix.xxii-p39.1
2185. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=3#ix.xxii-p1.5
2186. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=3#ix.xxii-p31.1
2187. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=4#ix.xxii-p63.1
2188. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=8#viii.xxv-p31.3
2189. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=10#ix.xxii-p72.1
2190. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=12#vii.xi-p102.2
2191. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=13#ix.xxii-p1.7
2192. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=13#ix.xxii-p78.1
2193. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=16#ix.xxiii-p9.1
2194. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=16#ix.xv-p15.1
2195. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=16#ix.xxiii-p1.1
2196. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=20#ix.xxiii-p17.1
2197. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=21#ix.xiii-p37.1
2198. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=23#x.v-p7.1
2199. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=23#ix.xxiii-p1.4
2200. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=28#ix.xxiii-p34.1
2201. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=28#ix.xxiii-p37.1
2202. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=29#ix.xxiii-p33.1
2203. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=30#ix.xx-p19.1
2204. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=30#x.v-p1.1
2205. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=30#x.v-p5.1
2206. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=30#x.v-p11.1
2207. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=19&scrV=30#x.v-p28.1
2208. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=20&scrV=0#viii.xxiii-p18.1
2209. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=20&scrV=1#ix.xvi-p34.1
2210. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=20&scrV=1#x.v-p13.1
2211. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=20&scrV=2#ix.xv-p38.1
2212. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=20&scrV=15#x.v-p9.1
2213. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=20&scrV=17#ix.iv-p5.1
2214. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=20&scrV=17#ix.xxiii-p1.7
2215. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=20&scrV=17#ix.xxiii-p50.1
2216. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=20&scrV=17#x.viii-p17.1
2217. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=20&scrV=20#ix.iii-p50.1
2218. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=20&scrV=20#ix.xxiii-p65.1
2219. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=20&scrV=20#ix.xxiii-p1.10
2220. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=20&scrV=20#ix.xxiii-p67.1
2221. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=20&scrV=24#ix.xxii-p79.1
2222. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=20&scrV=28#ix.xxiii-p73.1
2223. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=20&scrV=28#x.xv-p144.3
2224. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=20&scrV=29#ix.xxiv-p1.2
2225. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=20&scrV=29#ix.xxiv-p25.1
2226. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=20&scrV=30#viii.xxxiv-p38.2
2227. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=0#viii.xxiii-p18.1
2228. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=1#x.i-p1.1
2229. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=5#x.i-p5.1
2230. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=12#vii.x-p68.2
2231. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=12#viii.v-p46.1
2232. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=12#viii.v-p52.1
2233. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=12#x.ii-p1.1
2234. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=18#x.ii-p15.1
2235. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=23#x.iii-p1.1
2236. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=23#x.iii-p25.1
2237. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=25#vii.xii-p26.1
2238. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=25#vii.xii-p59.1
2239. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=28#x.v-p1.2
2240. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=28#x.v-p42.1
2241. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=29#x.xiv-p49.5
2242. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=29#x.xiv-p49.6
2243. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=32#x.xiv-p49.6
2244. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=33#x.v-p46.1
2245. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=33#viii.xxvii-p82.1
2246. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=38#x.viii-p14.1
2247. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=40#x.v-p51.3
2248. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=41#x.v-p67.1
2249. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=21&scrV=45#x.v-p54.1
2250. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=0#viii.xxiii-p18.1
2251. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=1#x.v-p75.1
2252. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=1#x.v-p1.5
2253. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=1#x.v-p72.1
2254. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=8#x.v-p90.1
2255. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=12#x.iv-p55.4
2256. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=14#x.v-p96.1
2257. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=15#x.iii-p1.4
2258. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=15#x.iii-p31.1
2259. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=20#xi.iii-p6.1
2260. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=23#viii.ii-p60.1
2261. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=23#x.iv-p9.1
2262. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=23#x.iv-p1.1
2263. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=29#x.iv-p46.1
2264. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=32#viii.ii-p66.2
2265. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=34#x.iv-p55.3
2266. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=34#x.v-p94.1
2267. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=34#x.iv-p1.4
2268. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=34#x.iv-p56.1
2269. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=35#vi.viii-p5.3
2270. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=35#ix.xv-p10.1
2271. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=41#x.iii-p1.7
2272. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=41#x.iv-p1.6
2273. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=41#x.xiii-p98.1
2274. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=42#vii.x-p88.1
2275. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=22&scrV=46#x.iv-p72.1
2276. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=0#vi.viii-p12.1
2277. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=0#ix.xii-p4.1
2278. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=0#ix.xii-p5.1
2279. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=0#ix.xii-p6.2
2280. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=0#ix.xii-p50.1
2281. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=0#x.iv-p1.9
2282. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=0#x.iv-p74.1
2283. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=2#viii.x-p51.1
2284. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=3#vi.viii-p75.1
2285. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=3#vi.viii-p76.5
2286. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=3#x.iv-p79.1
2287. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=4#vi.viii-p76.7
2288. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=5#vi.vi-p20.1
2289. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=5#vii.xii-p9.1
2290. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=6#viii.x-p49.1
2291. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=13#x.iv-p122.1
2292. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=14#x.iv-p123.1
2293. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=23#viii.ii-p34.2
2294. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=25#viii.iv-p45.2
2295. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=25#viii.ii-p35.2
2296. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=27#ix.xxi-p93.1
2297. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=34#x.v-p66.1
2298. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=37#ix.xx-p40.1
2299. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=37#x.vi-p5.1
2300. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=23&scrV=39#x.vi-p12.5
2301. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=0#viii.xxiii-p18.1
2302. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=0#viii.xxvii-p85.1
2303. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=0#ix.xxii-p15.1
2304. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=0#ix.xxii-p27.1
2305. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=0#x.iii-p61.1
2306. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=0#x.vi-p1.1
2307. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=0#x.vi-p198.1
2308. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=1#x.v-p3.1
2309. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=1#x.vi-p6.1
2310. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=3#x.vi-p7.1
2311. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=3#x.vi-p173.1
2312. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=3#x.vi-p183.1
2313. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=3#vii.viii-p18.1
2314. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=4#x.vi-p146.1
2315. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=6#x.vi-p153.1
2316. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=6#x.vi-p160.1
2317. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=8#x.vi-p151.1
2318. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=8#x.vi-p152.3
2319. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=9#x.vi-p165.1
2320. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=9#x.vi-p168.1
2321. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=10#x.vi-p169.1
2322. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=14#x.vi-p170.1
2323. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=15#x.vi-p172.1
2324. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=22#x.vi-p178.1
2325. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=30#x.vi-p188.1
2326. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=32#viii.xxiii-p33.1
2327. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=32#viii.xxiii-p42.1
2328. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=34#viii.xxvii-p86.1
2329. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=36#x.vi-p147.1
2330. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=36#x.vi-p197.1
2331. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=36#x.vii-p3.1
2332. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=43#ix.xiii-p46.1
2333. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=43#x.vi-p205.1
2334. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=24&scrV=45#ix.xiii-p50.2
2335. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=25&scrV=0#viii.xxiii-p18.1
2336. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=25&scrV=1#x.vii-p1.1
2337. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=25&scrV=1#viii.xxvii-p87.1
2338. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=25&scrV=6#x.vii-p7.1
2339. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=25&scrV=14#x.vii-p1.2
2340. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=25&scrV=14#x.vii-p27.1
2341. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=25&scrV=31#xi.xviii-p3.1
2342. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=25&scrV=46#x.iii-p5.1
2343. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=1#x.iii-p6.1
2344. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=1#x.ix-p13.1
2345. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=1#x.viii-p1.1
2346. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=3#x.i-p47.1
2347. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=6#viii.xxi-p16.1
2348. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=6#ix.xxi-p13.2
2349. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=6#ix.xxiv-p1.6
2350. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=6#x.i-p12.1
2351. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=13#ix.xxiv-p53.1
2352. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=17#x.ix-p1.1
2353. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=17#x.x-p1.1
2354. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=17#x.ix-p17.1
2355. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=20#x.x-p1.5
2356. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=21#x.x-p79.1
2357. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=21#x.x-p1.11
2358. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=24#x.x-p95.1
2359. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=25#x.x-p1.15
2360. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=25#x.x-p21.1
2361. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=26#x.x-p112.1
2362. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=26#x.x-p1.17
2363. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=30#x.ix-p9.1
2364. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=30#x.xi-p5.1
2365. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=30#x.xii-p1.1
2366. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=32#x.xii-p7.1
2367. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=33#x.xvii-p103.1
2368. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=36#x.ix-p9.1
2369. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=36#x.xii-p30.1
2370. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=39#x.xii-p40.1
2371. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=40#x.xii-p45.1
2372. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=40#viii.xi-p4.1
2373. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=42#x.xii-p40.1
2374. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=43#ix.i-p22.1
2375. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=45#x.xii-p52.1
2376. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=49#x.xii-p67.1
2377. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=50#x.xii-p75.1
2378. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=57#x.xiii-p1.2
2379. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=58#x.xiii-p29.1
2380. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=59#x.xiii-p1.15
2381. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=60#viii.xi-p3.1
2382. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=66#x.xiii-p77.1
2383. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=69#x.xiii-p36.1
2384. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=69#x.xiii-p1.7
2385. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=71#x.xiii-p1.11
2386. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=26&scrV=73#x.xiii-p1.18
2387. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=1#x.xiv-p6.1
2388. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=1#x.xiv-p1.1
2389. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=3#x.v-p43.2
2390. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=3#x.xiv-p1.6
2391. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=3#x.xiv-p46.1
2392. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=5#ix.iii-p12.1
2393. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=5#x.xiv-p52.3
2394. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=7#ix.xxi-p41.1
2395. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=11#x.xiv-p1.1
2396. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=12#x.xiii-p80.2
2397. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=15#x.xiv-p1.7
2398. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=17#x.xiv-p47.2
2399. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=18#x.xiv-p25.1
2400. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=20#x.xiv-p1.8
2401. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=20#x.xiv-p1.11
2402. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=24#x.xiv-p72.1
2403. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=31#x.xv-p1.1
2404. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=42#x.xv-p91.1
2405. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=45#x.xv-p1.9
2406. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=48#x.xv-p162.1
2407. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=51#x.xv-p136.1
2408. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=51#x.xv-p180.1
2409. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=52#x.xv-p190.1
2410. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=55#viii.xxx-p33.4
2411. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=55#x.xv-p120.1
2412. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=56#viii.xxii-p22.1
2413. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=56#ix.xxiii-p62.1
2414. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=57#x.xv-p1.14
2415. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=62#x.xv-p1.18
2416. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=27&scrV=62#x.xvi-p13.1
2417. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=28&scrV=1#x.xvii-p16.1
2418. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=28&scrV=1#x.xvii-p18.1
2419. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=28&scrV=1#x.xvii-p1.1
2420. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=28&scrV=9#x.xvii-p24.1
2421. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=28&scrV=9#x.xvii-p24.4
2422. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=28&scrV=11#x.xvii-p1.5
2423. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=28&scrV=16#x.xii-p9.1
2424. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=28&scrV=16#x.xvii-p1.13
2425. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=28&scrV=16#x.xvii-p22.1
2426. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=28&scrV=16#x.xvii-p88.1
2427. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=28&scrV=17#x.xvii-p90.1
2428. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=28&scrV=17#x.xvii-p1.15
2429. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=28&scrV=19#viii.xxvii-p45.1
2430. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Matt&scrCh=28&scrV=44#x.xv-p1.5
2431. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=2#vii.xi-p1.2
2432. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=7#vii.xii-p1.2
2433. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=10#vii.xii-p37.3
2434. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=12#viii.i-p1.2
2435. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=14#vii.xi-p107.2
2436. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=14#viii.vii-p25.1
2437. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=14#viii.ix-p1.2
2438. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=14#viii.ix-p6.1
2439. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=14#viii.xi-p1.2
2440. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=14#viii.ix-p15.2
2441. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=15#vii.xi-p108.2
2442. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=15#viii.ix-p9.1
2443. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=16#viii.xiii-p20.1
2444. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=16#viii.xiii-p4.2
2445. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=16#viii.xiii-p6.2
2446. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=16#viii.vii-p27.2
2447. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=16#viii.xiii-p1.2
2448. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=20#viii.xiii-p4.1
2449. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=21#viii.xiv-p1.1
2450. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=22#viii.xiv-p6.2
2451. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=23#viii.xiv-p30.1
2452. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=25#x.iv-p55.5
2453. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=27#viii.xiv-p36.1
2454. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=27#viii.xxiv-p23.1
2455. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=29#viii.xxxi-p12.1
2456. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=35#viii.xv-p9.1
2457. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=35#x.ii-p3.1
2458. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=35#x.ii-p5.3
2459. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=35#viii.xv-p1.2
2460. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=38#viii.xv-p12.2
2461. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=40#viii.xxxiv-p41.1
2462. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=40#ix.xxii-p13.2
2463. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=43#viii.xxxiv-p40.3
2464. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=44#viii.xxvi-p16.2
2465. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=1&scrV=45#viii.xxxiv-p44.1
2466. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=2&scrV=1#viii.v-p3.2
2467. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=2&scrV=1#viii.xvi-p1.2
2468. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=2&scrV=6#viii.xvi-p6.1
2469. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=2&scrV=9#viii.xvi-p9.1
2470. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=2&scrV=10#viii.xvi-p12.2
2471. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=2&scrV=13#viii.xvii-p75.1
2472. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=2&scrV=13#viii.xvii-p1.2
2473. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=2&scrV=15#viii.v-p15.1
2474. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=2&scrV=16#viii.xvii-p111.1
2475. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=2&scrV=17#viii.xvii-p2.2
2476. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=2&scrV=18#viii.xxviii-p55.2
2477. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=2&scrV=18#viii.xxviii-p65.1
2478. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=2&scrV=18#viii.xxviii-p1.3
2479. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=2&scrV=23#viii.xxxv-p1.2
2480. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=2&scrV=23#viii.xxxv-p30.5
2481. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=4#viii.xxxv-p71.1
2482. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=6#x.iii-p34.1
2483. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=11#viii.xxx-p33.5
2484. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=12#viii.xxvi-p16.5
2485. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=13#viii.xviii-p5.2
2486. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=13#viii.xvii-p1.5
2487. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=13#viii.xvii-p124.2
2488. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=18#vii.x-p110.1
2489. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=19#viii.xix-p7.1
2490. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=20#viii.xix-p1.2
2491. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=22#viii.xxii-p1.3
2492. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=22#viii.xxii-p45.1
2493. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=22#ix.xi-p28.1
2494. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=22#viii.xxii-p34.3
2495. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=22#viii.xxiii-p16.3
2496. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=23#viii.xxii-p37.3
2497. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=23#viii.xxiii-p33.2
2498. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=23#viii.xxii-p36.1
2499. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=23#viii.xxii-p37.1
2500. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=31#vii.x-p105.4
2501. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=31#viii.xix-p11.1
2502. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=31#viii.xxii-p54.2
2503. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=3&scrV=32#viii.xxii-p43.1
2504. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=4&scrV=1#viii.xxiii-p1.2
2505. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=4&scrV=10#viii.xxiii-p123.2
2506. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=4&scrV=11#vii.xi-p110.2
2507. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=4&scrV=11#viii.xxiii-p21.1
2508. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=4&scrV=11#viii.v-p61.2
2509. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=4&scrV=12#viii.vii-p25.2
2510. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=4&scrV=26#vii.xi-p110.2
2511. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=4&scrV=26#viii.xxiii-p46.1
2512. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=4&scrV=26#viii.xxiii-p49.1
2513. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=4&scrV=26#viii.xxiii-p73.1
2514. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=4&scrV=26#viii.xxiii-p84.1
2515. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=4&scrV=30#vii.xi-p110.2
2516. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=4&scrV=32#viii.xxiii-p113.1
2517. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=4&scrV=33#viii.xxiii-p57.2
2518. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=4&scrV=35#viii.xxiv-p1.2
2519. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=4&scrV=36#viii.xxiv-p4.1
2520. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=4&scrV=37#viii.xxiv-p7.1
2521. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=4&scrV=38#viii.xxiv-p19.1
2522. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=4&scrV=39#viii.xiv-p34.1
2523. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=5&scrV=1#viii.xxix-p22.1
2524. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=5&scrV=1#viii.xxv-p1.2
2525. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=5&scrV=3#viii.xxv-p14.1
2526. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=5&scrV=5#viii.xxv-p17.1
2527. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=5&scrV=6#viii.xxv-p20.1
2528. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=5&scrV=13#viii.xxv-p30.1
2529. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=5&scrV=20#viii.xxv-p6.1
2530. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=5&scrV=21#viii.xxvi-p1.2
2531. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=5&scrV=22#viii.x-p66.1
2532. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=5&scrV=22#viii.xi-p44.1
2533. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=5&scrV=27#vi.vi-p22.6
2534. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=5&scrV=31#viii.xxvi-p4.2
2535. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=5&scrV=37#x.xii-p32.1
2536. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=5&scrV=41#x.ix-p44.1
2537. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=0#viii.xxviii-p1.8
2538. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=1#viii.xxvii-p5.1
2539. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=1#viii.xi-p37.2
2540. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=1#viii.xxvii-p1.2
2541. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=2#viii.xxvii-p16.1
2542. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=3#vii.x-p113.1
2543. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=3#viii.v-p4.1
2544. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=3#viii.xxvii-p11.1
2545. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=3#viii.xxvii-p13.1
2546. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=5#viii.xii-p23.4
2547. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=7#ix.v-p7.2
2548. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=7#viii.xxvii-p36.1
2549. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=7#viii.xxvii-p34.1
2550. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=12#viii.xxviii-p6.1
2551. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=13#viii.xii-p23.4
2552. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=20#viii.xxviii-p85.1
2553. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=30#viii.xxviii-p7.2
2554. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=30#viii.xxix-p1.2
2555. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=31#viii.xxix-p18.1
2556. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=32#viii.xxix-p19.1
2557. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=33#viii.xxix-p20.1
2558. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=34#viii.xxix-p29.1
2559. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=34#viii.xxix-p31.1
2560. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=35#viii.xxix-p37.1
2561. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=38#viii.xxix-p36.3
2562. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=38#viii.xxix-p41.1
2563. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=39#viii.xxix-p14.1
2564. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=39#viii.xxix-p53.1
2565. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=39#viii.xxix-p55.3
2566. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=39#viii.xxxvi-p12.2
2567. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=40#viii.xxix-p57.1
2568. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=40#viii.xxix-p58.3
2569. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=45#viii.xxix-p7.2
2570. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=45#viii.xxxi-p4.1
2571. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=45#viii.xxxi-p8.1
2572. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=48#viii.xxx-p34.1
2573. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=49#viii.xxx-p16.2
2574. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=53#viii.xxxi-p20.1
2575. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=53#viii.xxxi-p25.2
2576. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=56#viii.xii-p22.4
2577. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=6&scrV=56#viii.xxxi-p26.1
2578. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=1#viii.xxxi-p34.2
2579. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=1#viii.iv-p43.1
2580. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=1#viii.xxxi-p1.2
2581. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=2#viii.iv-p45.1
2582. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=3#viii.xxxi-p74.1
2583. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=9#viii.xxxi-p123.2
2584. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=13#viii.xxxi-p123.2
2585. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=14#viii.xxxi-p165.2
2586. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=14#viii.xxxi-p40.2
2587. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=16#viii.xxxi-p163.1
2588. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=17#viii.xxxi-p42.2
2589. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=19#viii.xxxi-p170.1
2590. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=21#viii.xxxi-p168.1
2591. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=24#viii.xxviii-p9.1
2592. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=24#viii.xxxiii-p10.1
2593. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=24#viii.xxxiii-p1.2
2594. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=25#viii.xxxiii-p13.1
2595. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=26#viii.xxxiii-p25.1
2596. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=31#viii.xxxiv-p4.1
2597. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=31#viii.xxxiv-p19.1
2598. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=34#viii.xv-p4.1
2599. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=36#viii.xxvi-p16.7
2600. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=7&scrV=37#viii.xxvi-p113.1
2601. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=8&scrV=1#viii.xxxvi-p1.2
2602. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=8&scrV=6#viii.xxix-p60.2
2603. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=8&scrV=6#viii.xxxvi-p11.1
2604. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=8&scrV=11#viii.xxxvi-p25.1
2605. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=8&scrV=12#viii.xxxvi-p36.1
2606. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=8&scrV=12#viii.xxxvi-p41.1
2607. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=8&scrV=22#viii.xxxiv-p1.2
2608. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=8&scrV=22#viii.xxxiv-p26.1
2609. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=8&scrV=23#viii.xxxiv-p11.1
2610. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=8&scrV=24#viii.xxxiv-p32.1
2611. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=8&scrV=27#viii.xxxvii-p1.2
2612. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=8&scrV=27#viii.xxxvii-p34.1
2613. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=8&scrV=29#viii.xxxvii-p34.1
2614. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=1#vii.xi-p111.2
2615. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=2#ix.i-p1.2
2616. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=3#ix.i-p32.1
2617. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=9#ix.ii-p1.2
2618. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=10#ix.ii-p7.1
2619. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=10#ix.ii-p8.1
2620. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=13#viii.iii-p21.1
2621. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=16#ix.ii-p21.1
2622. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=21#viii.xiv-p17.1
2623. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=25#viii.xxiv-p22.1
2624. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=30#ix.iii-p1.2
2625. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=31#ix.iii-p39.2
2626. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=33#ix.iii-p60.1
2627. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=34#ix.iii-p37.1
2628. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=35#x.iv-p119.1
2629. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=38#ix.iii-p42.1
2630. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=38#ix.iii-p53.1
2631. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=38#ix.xxiii-p63.1
2632. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=42#ix.iii-p40.1
2633. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=43#vii.xi-p142.5
2634. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=44#ix.iii-p74.1
2635. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=45#vii.xi-p142.5
2636. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=47#vii.xi-p112.2
2637. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=49#ix.iii-p76.1
2638. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=9&scrV=50#ix.iii-p65.1
2639. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=0#ix.xxii-p1.2
2640. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=1#ix.iv-p12.2
2641. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=1#ix.xxii-p3.2
2642. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=1#ix.xxii-p32.2
2643. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=2#ix.xxii-p1.6
2644. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=2#ix.xxii-p31.2
2645. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=4#viii.xxv-p31.4
2646. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=10#ix.xxii-p71.1
2647. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=13#ix.xxii-p1.8
2648. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=13#ix.xxii-p78.2
2649. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=17#ix.xxiii-p1.2
2650. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=19#ix.xxiii-p8.1
2651. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=21#ix.xxiii-p19.1
2652. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=23#ix.xxiii-p29.1
2653. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=23#ix.xxiii-p1.5
2654. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=24#viii.xiv-p36.3
2655. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=24#ix.xxiii-p30.1
2656. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=26#ix.xxiii-p33.2
2657. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=30#ix.xxiii-p33.2
2658. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=31#ix.xxiii-p52.1
2659. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=32#ix.iv-p5.2
2660. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=32#viii.xiv-p36.3
2661. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=32#ix.xxiii-p57.1
2662. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=32#ix.xxiii-p1.8
2663. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=35#ix.xxiii-p65.2
2664. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=35#ix.xxiii-p1.11
2665. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=35#ix.xxiii-p67.2
2666. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=41#ix.xxii-p79.2
2667. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=41#ix.xxiii-p71.1
2668. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=45#ix.xxiii-p73.2
2669. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=46#ix.xxiv-p1.3
2670. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=47#viii.xxxiv-p38.3
2671. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=49#ix.xxiv-p28.1
2672. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=10&scrV=51#vi.viii-p4.2
2673. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=11&scrV=1#x.i-p1.2
2674. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=11&scrV=3#x.i-p21.1
2675. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=11&scrV=11#x.xiv-p70.1
2676. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=11&scrV=15#x.ii-p1.2
2677. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=11&scrV=20#x.ii-p16.1
2678. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=11&scrV=20#x.iii-p4.1
2679. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=11&scrV=25#x.ii-p22.1
2680. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=11&scrV=27#x.iii-p1.2
2681. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=11&scrV=27#x.iii-p25.2
2682. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=12&scrV=1#x.v-p1.3
2683. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=12&scrV=9#x.vi-p167.1
2684. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=12&scrV=13#x.iii-p1.5
2685. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=12&scrV=13#x.iii-p31.2
2686. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=12&scrV=14#ix.iii-p24.2
2687. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=12&scrV=17#x.iii-p43.1
2688. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=12&scrV=18#x.iv-p1.2
2689. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=12&scrV=28#x.iv-p61.1
2690. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=12&scrV=28#x.iv-p1.5
2691. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=12&scrV=28#x.iv-p56.2
2692. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=12&scrV=33#x.iv-p66.1
2693. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=12&scrV=35#x.iv-p1.7
2694. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=12&scrV=40#x.iv-p123.2
2695. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=13&scrV=0#viii.xxvii-p27.1
2696. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=13&scrV=0#viii.xxvii-p86.2
2697. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=13&scrV=0#ix.xxii-p15.2
2698. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=13&scrV=0#x.vi-p1.2
2699. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=13&scrV=0#x.vi-p11.1
2700. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=13&scrV=1#x.vi-p8.1
2701. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=13&scrV=8#x.vi-p151.2
2702. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=13&scrV=9#viii.xxvii-p80.1
2703. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=13&scrV=35#viii.xv-p10.3
2704. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=13&scrV=37#x.iii-p5.2
2705. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=13&scrV=41#x.iii-p47.1
2706. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=0#vi.viii-p11.2
2707. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=0#x.x-p1.12
2708. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=1#x.iii-p6.2
2709. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=1#x.viii-p1.2
2710. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=2#x.i-p47.2
2711. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=3#ix.xxi-p13.3
2712. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=3#ix.xxiv-p1.7
2713. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=3#ix.xxiv-p49.3
2714. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=3#x.i-p12.2
2715. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=5#viii.xxxiv-p40.4
2716. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=8#ix.xxiv-p54.1
2717. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=10#x.viii-p1.2
2718. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=11#x.viii-p1.2
2719. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=12#x.ix-p1.2
2720. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=12#x.x-p1.2
2721. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=12#x.ix-p17.2
2722. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=14#vii.vi-p24.3
2723. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=14#x.ix-p34.1
2724. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=17#x.x-p1.6
2725. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=18#x.x-p80.1
2726. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=21#x.x-p95.2
2727. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=22#x.x-p112.2
2728. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=22#x.x-p1.18
2729. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=26#x.ix-p9.2
2730. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=26#x.xi-p5.2
2731. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=26#x.xii-p1.2
2732. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=28#x.xii-p7.2
2733. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=32#x.ix-p9.2
2734. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=36#x.xii-p42.1
2735. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=40#ix.i-p22.2
2736. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=41#ix.xxiv-p59.1
2737. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=41#x.xii-p52.2
2738. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=45#x.xii-p67.2
2739. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=46#x.xii-p76.1
2740. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=51#x.xii-p89.1
2741. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=53#x.xiii-p1.3
2742. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=54#x.xiii-p29.2
2743. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=55#x.xiii-p1.16
2744. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=64#x.xiii-p78.1
2745. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=66#vii.i-p52.1
2746. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=66#x.xiii-p35.1
2747. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=66#x.xiii-p1.8
2748. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=69#x.xiii-p1.12
2749. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=14&scrV=70#x.xiii-p1.19
2750. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=15&scrV=0#x.xiv-p1.2
2751. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=15&scrV=1#x.xiv-p6.2
2752. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=15&scrV=8#x.xiv-p66.1
2753. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=15&scrV=11#x.xiv-p1.9
2754. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=15&scrV=11#x.xiv-p1.12
2755. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=15&scrV=20#x.xv-p1.2
2756. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=15&scrV=21#x.xv-p36.1
2757. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=15&scrV=23#ix.xii-p39.1
2758. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=15&scrV=25#x.xv-p34.1
2759. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=15&scrV=32#x.xv-p1.6
2760. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=15&scrV=33#x.xv-p1.10
2761. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=15&scrV=36#x.xv-p162.2
2762. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=15&scrV=39#x.xv-p166.1
2763. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=15&scrV=40#vii.x-p112.2
2764. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=15&scrV=40#ix.xxiii-p62.2
2765. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=15&scrV=40#ix.xxii-p4.1
2766. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=15&scrV=40#x.xv-p121.1
2767. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=15&scrV=42#x.xv-p1.15
2768. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=15&scrV=43#x.xv-p213.3
2769. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=15&scrV=95#x.xv-p6.1
2770. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=16&scrV=0#x.xvii-p1.16
2771. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=16&scrV=1#x.xvii-p16.2
2772. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=16&scrV=1#x.xvii-p18.2
2773. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=16&scrV=1#x.xvii-p1.2
2774. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=16&scrV=9#x.xvii-p24.3
2775. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=16&scrV=10#x.xvi-p18.1
2776. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=16&scrV=11#x.xvii-p41.1
2777. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=16&scrV=12#x.xvii-p31.1
2778. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=16&scrV=12#x.xvii-p1.6
2779. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=16&scrV=14#x.xvii-p1.9
2780. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=16&scrV=14#x.xvii-p63.1
2781. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=16&scrV=18#ix.v-p52.2
2782. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=16&scrV=19#x.xvii-p1.19
2783. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Mark&scrCh=16&scrV=28#vii.xi-p111.1
2784. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=2#vi.iv-p95.1
2785. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=4#vii.iv-p5.1
2786. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=4#vii.vi-p25.2
2787. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=5#xi.vii-p10.1
2788. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=5#vii.iii-p1.1
2789. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=7#vii.iii-p17.1
2790. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=9#vii.iii-p3.1
2791. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=17#vii.iii-p43.1
2792. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=17#viii.iii-p20.1
2793. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=20#ix.xvi-p37.5
2794. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=24#xi.vii-p10.3
2795. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=26#xi.vii-p10.2
2796. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=26#vii.iv-p1.2
2797. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=27#vii.iv-p29.1
2798. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=32#vii.iv-p29.1
2799. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=33#vii.xi-p107.3
2800. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=36#vii.iv-p31.1
2801. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=36#xi.vii-p10.2
2802. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=62#vii.iv-p93.1
2803. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=63#ix.xviii-p51.1
2804. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=68#viii.xx-p76.1
2805. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=69#vii.iv-p29.1
2806. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=78#vii.iv-p94.1
2807. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=80#vii.xi-p14.1
2808. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=1&scrV=80#vii.xi-p16.1
2809. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=1#vii.vi-p1.2
2810. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=2#vii.vi-p10.2
2811. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=2#vii.vi-p12.3
2812. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=5#vii.iv-p75.1
2813. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=5#vii.iv-p75.2
2814. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=5#vii.vi-p17.1
2815. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=7#vii.vi-p47.1
2816. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=7#vii.x-p105.2
2817. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=7#viii.v-p6.2
2818. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=7#ix.xxiv-p20.3
2819. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=7#x.ix-p36.1
2820. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=12#vii.vi-p47.1
2821. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=19#vii.iv-p49.1
2822. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=19#vii.vii-p9.1
2823. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=21#vii.vii-p1.1
2824. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=22#vii.vii-p26.1
2825. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=24#vii.iv-p34.1
2826. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=27#ix.xix-p44.1
2827. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=29#vii.vii-p51.1
2828. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=32#ix.viii-p23.1
2829. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=32#ix.viii-p31.1
2830. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=36#vi.i-p101.1
2831. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=37#ix.xix-p44.1
2832. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=39#vii.ix-p1.2
2833. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=40#vii.ix-p31.1
2834. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=40#vii.ix-p62.1
2835. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=41#vii.x-p1.1
2836. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=43#vii.x-p78.1
2837. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=48#viii.xiv-p6.3
2838. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=49#viii.xxvii-p56.1
2839. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=51#vii.iv-p49.1
2840. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=51#vii.vii-p9.1
2841. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=2&scrV=52#vii.x-p101.1
2842. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=3&scrV=1#vii.xi-p1.3
2843. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=3&scrV=3#vii.xi-p55.1
2844. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=3&scrV=15#viii.ii-p11.2
2845. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=3&scrV=15#viii.iii-p17.1
2846. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=3&scrV=17#vii.xi-p142.4
2847. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=3&scrV=19#viii.xxviii-p117.1
2848. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=3&scrV=19#x.xi-p87.2
2849. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=3&scrV=21#vii.xii-p29.1
2850. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=3&scrV=21#vii.xii-p34.1
2851. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=3&scrV=21#vii.xii-p1.3
2852. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=3&scrV=23#xi.vii-p8.1
2853. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=1#ix.iv-p8.1
2854. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=1#viii.i-p1.3
2855. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=11#viii.ix-p7.1
2856. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=14#viii.ix-p1.3
2857. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=15#viii.ix-p19.1
2858. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=15#viii.xi-p1.3
2859. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=16#vii.ix-p122.1
2860. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=16#viii.ix-p18.1
2861. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=16#viii.x-p1.1
2862. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=16#viii.x-p7.1
2863. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=16#viii.ix-p14.1
2864. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=16#viii.xxvii-p6.1
2865. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=18#viii.xi-p10.1
2866. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=20#viii.x-p64.1
2867. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=23#viii.ix-p25.1
2868. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=23#viii.xxiii-p34.1
2869. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=23#viii.xxiii-p43.1
2870. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=31#viii.ix-p20.1
2871. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=31#viii.ix-p15.3
2872. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=33#viii.xiv-p1.2
2873. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=35#x.iv-p55.6
2874. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=36#viii.xiv-p36.2
2875. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=39#viii.xxiv-p21.1
2876. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=42#viii.xv-p1.3
2877. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=4&scrV=43#viii.xv-p12.1
2878. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=0#x.ii-p3.2
2879. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=0#x.xvii-p99.1
2880. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=1#x.xvii-p94.1
2881. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=1#viii.vii-p27.3
2882. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=1#viii.xiii-p1.3
2883. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=2#viii.xiii-p6.3
2884. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=5#viii.xiii-p5.1
2885. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=11#x.xvii-p94.1
2886. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=14#viii.xxvi-p16.3
2887. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=17#vi.viii-p2.1
2888. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=17#vi.viii-p10.3
2889. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=17#viii.xvi-p1.3
2890. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=21#viii.xv-p71.1
2891. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=21#viii.xiv-p3.1
2892. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=27#viii.xvii-p1.3
2893. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=30#viii.xv-p73.1
2894. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=31#viii.xvii-p115.1
2895. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=32#viii.xvii-p3.1
2896. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=33#viii.xv-p74.1
2897. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=33#viii.xxviii-p55.3
2898. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=33#viii.xxviii-p1.4
2899. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=36#viii.xxiii-p33.3
2900. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=36#viii.xxiii-p40.1
2901. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=5&scrV=39#viii.xxviii-p82.1
2902. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=0#viii.xviii-p10.1
2903. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=1#viii.xxxv-p1.3
2904. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=4#viii.xxxv-p57.1
2905. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=6#viii.xxxv-p76.1
2906. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=7#viii.xv-p72.1
2907. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=11#viii.xxxv-p81.1
2908. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=12#x.ii-p3.4
2909. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=12#viii.xviii-p5.1
2910. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=12#viii.xvii-p1.6
2911. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=12#viii.xvii-p124.3
2912. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=13#viii.xviii-p4.1
2913. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=15#vii.x-p109.1
2914. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=15#viii.xvii-p129.1
2915. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=17#viii.xviii-p5.1
2916. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=17#viii.xviii-p6.1
2917. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=20#vii.xi-p112.3
2918. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=38#viii.xviii-p67.4
2919. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=6&scrV=39#viii.xxiii-p41.1
2920. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=1#viii.ix-p37.2
2921. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=1#viii.xix-p1.3
2922. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=5#viii.x-p18.1
2923. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=5#viii.xi-p43.1
2924. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=6#viii.xix-p32.1
2925. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=8#viii.xix-p27.1
2926. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=11#viii.xx-p1.1
2927. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=12#viii.iv-p18.1
2928. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=17#viii.xxii-p41.1
2929. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=18#viii.xxviii-p1.6
2930. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=18#viii.xxviii-p84.1
2931. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=21#viii.xxviii-p93.1
2932. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=26#x.v-p64.1
2933. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=28#vii.xi-p109.2
2934. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=28#vii.xi-p150.2
2935. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=29#viii.xxviii-p100.1
2936. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=30#vi.viii-p5.4
2937. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=30#vi.viii-p12.2
2938. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=30#vii.xii-p8.1
2939. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=31#viii.xxii-p49.2
2940. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=36#viii.xxi-p11.1
2941. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=36#ix.xxiv-p44.1
2942. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=36#viii.xxi-p1.1
2943. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=7&scrV=40#viii.xxi-p19.1
2944. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=1#vii.xi-p108.3
2945. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=1#viii.xxii-p1.1
2946. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=1#viii.xxii-p4.1
2947. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=3#viii.ix-p53.1
2948. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=3#viii.xxii-p30.1
2949. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=4#viii.xxiii-p1.3
2950. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=5#viii.xxiii-p77.5
2951. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=10#vii.xi-p110.3
2952. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=14#viii.xxiii-p81.1
2953. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=17#viii.xxvii-p105.1
2954. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=19#viii.iv-p62.1
2955. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=19#viii.xxii-p54.3
2956. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=22#viii.xxiv-p1.3
2957. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=26#viii.xxv-p1.3
2958. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=27#viii.xxv-p15.1
2959. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=28#viii.xxv-p20.2
2960. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=29#ix.iv-p9.1
2961. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=40#viii.xxvi-p1.3
2962. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=44#vi.vi-p22.7
2963. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=45#viii.xxvi-p4.1
2964. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=47#viii.xxvi-p98.1
2965. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=8&scrV=56#viii.xxvi-p16.6
2966. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=1#ix.v-p7.3
2967. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=1#viii.xxvii-p34.2
2968. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=1#viii.xxvii-p1.3
2969. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=1#ix.iv-p1.2
2970. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=6#viii.xxviii-p6.2
2971. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=7#viii.xxviii-p1.9
2972. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=7#x.xiv-p43.1
2973. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=9#viii.xxviii-p124.1
2974. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=9#ix.xx-p31.1
2975. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=10#viii.xxix-p3.1
2976. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=10#viii.xxix-p1.3
2977. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=11#viii.xxix-p32.1
2978. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=13#viii.xxix-p36.4
2979. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=14#viii.xxix-p56.3
2980. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=18#viii.xxxvii-p27.1
2981. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=18#viii.xxxvii-p43.1
2982. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=18#viii.xxxvii-p1.3
2983. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=27#vii.xi-p111.3
2984. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=28#ix.i-p1.3
2985. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=30#ix.i-p36.3
2986. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=31#ix.iv-p22.1
2987. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=34#ix.i-p44.1
2988. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=37#ix.i-p8.1
2989. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=37#ix.ii-p1.3
2990. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=43#ix.iii-p1.3
2991. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=49#ix.iii-p53.2
2992. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=50#ix.iii-p54.1
2993. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=51#ix.iv-p11.1
2994. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=51#ix.iv-p16.1
2995. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=51#ix.iv-p42.1
2996. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=52#x.ii-p25.1
2997. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=53#ix.viii-p91.1
2998. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=54#ix.iv-p45.1
2999. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=54#ix.xxiii-p64.1
3000. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=9&scrV=59#ix.iv-p55.1
3001. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=0#viii.xxiii-p13.1
3002. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=1#ix.v-p1.1
3003. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=2#ix.v-p15.2
3004. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=2#ix.v-p19.1
3005. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=2#viii.xxvii-p22.1
3006. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=6#ix.v-p28.1
3007. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=7#ix.v-p31.1
3008. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=9#ix.v-p21.2
3009. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=12#ix.v-p13.2
3010. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=13#viii.xxxi-p13.2
3011. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=13#ix.v-p35.1
3012. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=13#viii.xxi-p6.1
3013. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=15#viii.xix-p4.1
3014. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=17#ix.v-p45.1
3015. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=17#viii.xiv-p14.1
3016. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=17#viii.xv-p5.1
3017. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=17#ix.v-p1.3
3018. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=18#viii.i-p22.4
3019. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=18#viii.xxx-p33.6
3020. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=22#viii.xvi-p13.2
3021. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=22#ix.v-p59.1
3022. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=23#ix.v-p63.1
3023. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=23#ix.v-p79.1
3024. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=25#ix.v-p1.5
3025. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=25#ix.v-p83.1
3026. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=25#ix.xv-p1.1
3027. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=25#ix.xv-p9.1
3028. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=29#ix.xxiii-p16.1
3029. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=31#viii.xx-p72.3
3030. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=31#viii.xx-p72.4
3031. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=38#ix.v-p85.1
3032. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=38#ix.v-p96.1
3033. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=38#ix.xxi-p13.1
3034. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=10&scrV=38#ix.xxi-p20.1
3035. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=0#viii.ii-p34.1
3036. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=0#viii.xxii-p37.5
3037. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=0#viii.xxiii-p15.1
3038. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=1#ix.xi-p21.1
3039. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=5#ix.xix-p3.1
3040. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=5#ix.xv-p42.1
3041. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=8#ix.xix-p35.1
3042. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=14#viii.xxii-p48.2
3043. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=14#viii.xxxiv-p36.2
3044. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=14#ix.xi-p8.1
3045. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=14#ix.xi-p23.1
3046. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=14#viii.xxii-p34.5
3047. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=14#viii.xxiii-p16.1
3048. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=14#ix.xi-p1.2
3049. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=17#viii.i-p22.2
3050. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=19#viii.xiv-p15.2
3051. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=21#xi.xii-p44.1
3052. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=22#ix.xi-p29.1
3053. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=22#ix.xi-p29.1
3054. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=24#viii.xiv-p15.2
3055. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=27#ix.iv-p51.1
3056. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=27#viii.xxiii-p125.3
3057. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=27#ix.xi-p56.1
3058. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=30#ix.xi-p50.1
3059. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=33#ix.xi-p66.1
3060. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=37#ix.xii-p8.1
3061. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=37#ix.xii-p1.1
3062. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=37#x.iv-p75.1
3063. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=38#viii.iv-p45.3
3064. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=39#viii.ii-p35.1
3065. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=39#ix.xii-p51.1
3066. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=39#ix.xii-p6.1
3067. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=41#viii.ii-p35.1
3068. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=42#ix.xii-p58.1
3069. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=43#vi.viii-p12.3
3070. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=44#ix.xii-p61.1
3071. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=45#ix.xii-p68.1
3072. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=46#vi.viii-p76.6
3073. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=52#x.iii-p22.1
3074. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=53#ix.xii-p10.1
3075. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=11&scrV=53#ix.xii-p74.1
3076. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=0#viii.xxvii-p27.2
3077. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=0#ix.xiii-p42.1
3078. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=1#ix.xii-p62.1
3079. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=1#ix.xiii-p1.1
3080. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=1#viii.xxvii-p23.2
3081. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=1#ix.xiii-p4.1
3082. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=2#ix.xiii-p11.1
3083. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=2#ix.xiii-p6.1
3084. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=10#ix.xiii-p6.3
3085. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=10#ix.xiii-p22.1
3086. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=11#ix.xiii-p6.5
3087. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=13#ix.xvi-p1.1
3088. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=13#ix.xvi-p4.1
3089. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=16#ix.xiii-p25.1
3090. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=22#ix.xiii-p26.1
3091. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=29#ix.xiii-p30.1
3092. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=32#ix.xiii-p27.1
3093. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=33#ix.xiii-p36.1
3094. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=35#x.vi-p209.1
3095. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=39#ix.xiii-p47.1
3096. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=42#ix.xiii-p50.1
3097. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=42#ix.xviii-p24.2
3098. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=47#ix.xiii-p52.1
3099. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=48#x.xv-p174.3
3100. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=49#ix.xiii-p54.1
3101. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=51#ix.xiii-p60.1
3102. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=56#ix.xiii-p64.1
3103. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=12&scrV=58#ix.xiii-p69.1
3104. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=1#vii.xi-p31.1
3105. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=1#ix.xiii-p75.1
3106. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=2#ix.xvii-p42.1
3107. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=4#ix.xiii-p77.1
3108. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=6#ix.xiii-p80.1
3109. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=6#ix.xvi-p17.1
3110. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=6#x.ii-p12.1
3111. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=7#x.iii-p27.1
3112. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=10#ix.xiii-p83.1
3113. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=14#viii.x-p71.1
3114. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=14#ix.xxii-p79.3
3115. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=15#ix.xiii-p89.1
3116. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=18#viii.xxiii-p109.1
3117. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=22#ix.xiv-p1.1
3118. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=22#ix.xiv-p4.1
3119. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=23#ix.xx-p10.1
3120. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=23#ix.xx-p1.1
3121. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=23#ix.xx-p5.1
3122. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=27#ix.xx-p23.1
3123. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=30#x.v-p16.1
3124. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=31#viii.vii-p21.1
3125. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=31#viii.xxviii-p39.1
3126. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=31#ix.xx-p28.1
3127. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=13&scrV=32#ix.xx-p32.1
3128. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=14&scrV=1#ix.xvi-p43.1
3129. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=14&scrV=1#ix.xx-p43.1
3130. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=14&scrV=4#ix.xx-p45.1
3131. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=14&scrV=5#ix.xvii-p12.1
3132. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=14&scrV=11#x.iv-p119.2
3133. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=14&scrV=12#ix.xii-p12.3
3134. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=14&scrV=13#ix.xvi-p53.1
3135. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=14&scrV=14#ix.xvi-p45.1
3136. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=14&scrV=16#x.v-p85.1
3137. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=14&scrV=16#ix.xvi-p41.1
3138. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=14&scrV=21#x.v-p91.1
3139. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=14&scrV=25#ix.xx-p59.1
3140. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=14&scrV=26#ix.xx-p64.1
3141. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=15&scrV=0#ix.xvii-p1.1
3142. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=15&scrV=1#ix.xviii-p7.1
3143. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=15&scrV=3#ix.iii-p93.1
3144. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=15&scrV=4#ix.xvii-p10.1
3145. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=15&scrV=8#viii.xxiii-p26.1
3146. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=15&scrV=13#ix.xviii-p24.1
3147. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=15&scrV=23#ix.xvii-p51.1
3148. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=15&scrV=32#ix.xvii-p59.1
3149. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=16&scrV=0#ix.xviii-p1.1
3150. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=16&scrV=0#ix.xviii-p4.1
3151. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=16&scrV=1#ix.xviii-p16.1
3152. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=16&scrV=2#ix.xviii-p25.1
3153. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=16&scrV=7#ix.xviii-p82.1
3154. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=16&scrV=9#ix.xviii-p100.1
3155. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=16&scrV=10#ix.xviii-p110.1
3156. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=16&scrV=11#ix.vi-p44.6
3157. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=16&scrV=14#ix.xviii-p115.1
3158. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=16&scrV=14#ix.xxii-p29.1
3159. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=16&scrV=14#ix.xxii-p34.1
3160. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=16&scrV=14#ix.xviii-p113.1
3161. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=16&scrV=15#ix.xviii-p8.1
3162. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=16&scrV=16#ix.xviii-p119.1
3163. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=16&scrV=17#vii.ix-p125.1
3164. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=16&scrV=17#ix.xxii-p36.1
3165. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=16&scrV=23#ix.xviii-p143.1
3166. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=16&scrV=27#ix.xviii-p158.1
3167. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=17&scrV=0#ix.xix-p10.1
3168. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=17&scrV=1#ix.xx-p78.1
3169. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=17&scrV=1#ix.iii-p64.1
3170. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=17&scrV=1#ix.xx-p73.1
3171. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=17&scrV=6#ix.xx-p85.1
3172. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=17&scrV=10#viii.xvii-p26.1
3173. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=17&scrV=11#ix.iv-p5.3
3174. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=17&scrV=11#ix.xix-p9.1
3175. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=17&scrV=11#ix.xxii-p1.3
3176. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=17&scrV=11#ix.xxii-p3.3
3177. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=17&scrV=12#ix.xxii-p1.4
3178. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=17&scrV=12#ix.xxii-p11.1
3179. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=17&scrV=14#ix.xxii-p18.1
3180. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=17&scrV=16#viii.vii-p45.1
3181. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=17&scrV=18#viii.vii-p88.1
3182. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=17&scrV=20#ix.xxii-p28.1
3183. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=17&scrV=20#ix.xxii-p14.1
3184. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=17&scrV=20#ix.xxii-p26.1
3185. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=17&scrV=35#ix.iii-p68.1
3186. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=18&scrV=1#ix.xix-p21.1
3187. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=18&scrV=1#ix.xix-p1.1
3188. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=18&scrV=4#ix.xix-p34.1
3189. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=18&scrV=7#ix.xix-p4.1
3190. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=18&scrV=8#ix.xix-p38.1
3191. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=18&scrV=9#ix.xix-p41.1
3192. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=18&scrV=12#viii.xxviii-p61.1
3193. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=18&scrV=15#ix.xix-p64.1
3194. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=18&scrV=15#ix.xix-p68.1
3195. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=18&scrV=15#ix.xxii-p1.9
3196. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=18&scrV=15#ix.xxii-p78.3
3197. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=18&scrV=18#ix.xv-p12.1
3198. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=18&scrV=18#ix.xxiii-p1.3
3199. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=18&scrV=24#ix.xxiii-p1.6
3200. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=18&scrV=29#ix.xxiii-p33.3
3201. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=18&scrV=31#ix.xxiii-p58.1
3202. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=18&scrV=31#ix.xxiii-p1.9
3203. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=18&scrV=35#ix.xxiv-p1.4
3204. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=18&scrV=35#ix.xxiv-p25.2
3205. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=19&scrV=0#viii.xxiii-p18.2
3206. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=19&scrV=1#ix.xxiv-p1.1
3207. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=19&scrV=1#ix.xxiv-p15.1
3208. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=19&scrV=10#ix.iii-p91.2
3209. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=19&scrV=11#x.vii-p1.3
3210. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=19&scrV=11#x.vii-p50.1
3211. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=19&scrV=12#vii.ix-p24.1
3212. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=19&scrV=29#x.i-p1.3
3213. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=19&scrV=37#x.i-p27.1
3214. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=19&scrV=39#x.i-p19.1
3215. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=19&scrV=41#vii.x-p61.1
3216. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=19&scrV=41#ix.xxi-p121.1
3217. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=19&scrV=41#viii.xxxvi-p42.1
3218. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=19&scrV=45#viii.v-p52.2
3219. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=19&scrV=45#x.ii-p1.3
3220. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=20&scrV=1#x.iii-p1.3
3221. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=20&scrV=1#x.iii-p25.3
3222. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=20&scrV=9#x.v-p53.1
3223. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=20&scrV=9#x.v-p1.4
3224. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=20&scrV=19#x.iii-p31.3
3225. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=20&scrV=20#x.iii-p1.6
3226. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=20&scrV=27#x.iv-p1.3
3227. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=20&scrV=40#x.iv-p1.8
3228. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=20&scrV=45#ix.xii-p3.1
3229. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=20&scrV=47#x.iv-p123.3
3230. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=21&scrV=1#x.iii-p1.8
3231. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=21&scrV=1#x.iii-p47.2
3232. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=21&scrV=5#x.vi-p1.3
3233. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=21&scrV=12#x.vi-p166.1
3234. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=21&scrV=24#x.vi-p15.1
3235. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=21&scrV=29#viii.xxvii-p81.1
3236. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=21&scrV=31#x.vi-p194.3
3237. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=21&scrV=32#viii.xxvii-p86.3
3238. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=21&scrV=36#x.iii-p5.3
3239. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=21&scrV=37#x.v-p3.2
3240. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=1#x.iii-p6.3
3241. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=1#x.viii-p1.3
3242. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=2#vi.viii-p11.3
3243. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=2#x.xiv-p32.1
3244. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=3#x.viii-p20.1
3245. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=4#x.viii-p35.1
3246. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=7#x.ix-p14.1
3247. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=7#x.ix-p1.3
3248. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=7#x.x-p1.3
3249. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=8#x.i-p14.1
3250. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=8#x.ix-p25.1
3251. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=11#vii.vi-p24.4
3252. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=11#x.ix-p34.2
3253. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=14#x.x-p1.7
3254. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=17#x.x-p1.9
3255. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=17#x.x-p31.1
3256. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=19#x.x-p1.19
3257. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=21#x.x-p1.13
3258. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=24#x.x-p1.8
3259. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=25#x.x-p25.1
3260. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=28#x.x-p25.1
3261. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=30#ix.xxiii-p43.1
3262. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=31#x.xii-p12.1
3263. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=31#x.xii-p1.3
3264. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=35#x.xii-p25.1
3265. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=37#viii.iii-p35.2
3266. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=39#x.ix-p9.3
3267. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=41#x.xii-p37.1
3268. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=48#x.xii-p69.1
3269. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=54#x.xiii-p1.4
3270. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=56#x.xiii-p1.9
3271. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=58#x.xiii-p1.13
3272. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=59#x.xiii-p1.20
3273. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=66#vi.viii-p11.3
3274. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=66#vi.viii-p44.8
3275. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=66#x.xiii-p22.1
3276. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=66#x.xiii-p96.3
3277. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=67#x.xiii-p99.1
3278. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=22&scrV=67#x.xiii-p1.17
3279. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=1#x.xiv-p1.3
3280. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=2#x.iii-p29.1
3281. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=2#x.xiii-p80.1
3282. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=2#x.xiv-p5.1
3283. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=6#vii.i-p53.1
3284. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=6#x.xiv-p1.5
3285. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=6#x.xiv-p39.1
3286. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=13#x.xiv-p47.1
3287. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=18#x.xiv-p1.10
3288. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=18#x.xiv-p1.13
3289. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=26#vi.v-p24.1
3290. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=26#x.xv-p1.3
3291. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=27#x.xv-p41.1
3292. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=27#x.xv-p87.1
3293. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=35#x.xv-p100.1
3294. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=39#x.xv-p1.7
3295. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=44#x.xv-p1.11
3296. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=49#x.xv-p158.1
3297. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=50#x.xv-p1.16
3298. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=51#x.xv-p215.1
3299. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=54#x.xv-p219.3
3300. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=23&scrV=55#viii.xxii-p24.1
3301. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=24&scrV=0#x.xvii-p51.1
3302. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=24&scrV=1#x.xvii-p1.3
3303. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=24&scrV=10#viii.xxii-p26.1
3304. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=24&scrV=10#x.xvii-p6.1
3305. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=24&scrV=13#x.xvii-p1.7
3306. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=24&scrV=21#x.xvi-p16.1
3307. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=24&scrV=33#x.xvii-p60.1
3308. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=24&scrV=36#x.xvii-p1.10
3309. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=24&scrV=38#x.xvi-p33.1
3310. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=24&scrV=38#x.xvi-p36.1
3311. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=24&scrV=39#x.xvii-p64.1
3312. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=24&scrV=44#xi.v-p18.1
3313. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=24&scrV=44#x.xvii-p1.18
3314. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Luke&scrCh=24&scrV=47#vii.xi-p113.1
3315. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=0#viii.ix-p31.1
3316. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=0#viii.ix-p35.1
3317. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=0#vii.xii-p15.2
3318. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=0#vii.xii-p49.1
3319. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=0#viii.iii-p47.1
3320. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=10#vi.iv-p49.2
3321. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=10#xi.ii-p20.2
3322. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=11#viii.xxviii-p111.1
3323. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=13#viii.vi-p27.3
3324. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=14#ix.i-p52.1
3325. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=15#viii.iii-p1.1
3326. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=19#viii.ii-p2.1
3327. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=20#viii.iii-p18.1
3328. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=22#viii.iii-p29.1
3329. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=24#viii.ii-p121.1
3330. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=28#vii.xi-p56.1
3331. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=28#vii.xii-p16.1
3332. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=29#viii.xiv-p46.3
3333. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=32#vii.xii-p37.4
3334. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=32#vii.xii-p1.4
3335. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=33#vii.xii-p19.1
3336. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=33#vii.xii-p20.2
3337. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=33#viii.iii-p3.1
3338. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=33#x.xvii-p70.1
3339. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=34#vii.xii-p40.1
3340. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=37#viii.xiii-p24.1
3341. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=42#viii.xxxvii-p49.1
3342. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=44#viii.xxxi-p11.1
3343. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=45#x.xvii-p83.1
3344. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=46#vii.iv-p16.1
3345. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=1&scrV=48#viii.viii-p55.1
3346. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=0#viii.vi-p9.1
3347. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=0#viii.xxx-p35.2
3348. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=1#viii.iii-p49.1
3349. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=1#viii.ix-p24.1
3350. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=1#viii.iv-p1.1
3351. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=3#viii.iv-p56.1
3352. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=6#viii.xxxi-p69.1
3353. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=12#viii.vii-p27.4
3354. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=13#viii.xxviii-p13.1
3355. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=13#viii.xxxv-p22.1
3356. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=13#x.x-p6.1
3357. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=13#viii.iv-p41.1
3358. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=13#viii.v-p1.1
3359. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=14#vii.x-p68.1
3360. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=18#x.xiii-p85.1
3361. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=19#vi.vi-p63.1
3362. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=19#x.viii-p7.1
3363. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=20#viii.v-p21.3
3364. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=20#viii.v-p65.1
3365. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=20#xi.vii-p9.1
3366. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=23#viii.xxx-p33.7
3367. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=2&scrV=23#xi.xiv-p8.1
3368. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=1#viii.vi-p1.1
3369. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=3#vii.xi-p103.1
3370. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=3#vii.xi-p107.4
3371. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=3#viii.xxxii-p55.1
3372. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=5#vii.xi-p109.3
3373. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=5#viii.vi-p19.2
3374. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=5#viii.vi-p19.5
3375. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=8#viii.vi-p23.1
3376. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=13#vi.vi-p47.3
3377. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=16#viii.xxviii-p18.1
3378. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=16#viii.vi-p20.1
3379. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=16#viii.vi-p43.1
3380. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=17#xi.xviii-p18.3
3381. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=20#x.xi-p87.3
3382. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=22#viii.vii-p3.1
3383. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=22#viii.xxviii-p11.1
3384. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=22#viii.xxxv-p23.1
3385. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=24#viii.xxviii-p23.1
3386. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=25#viii.vii-p12.1
3387. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=25#viii.xxviii-p14.1
3388. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=25#viii.xxviii-p1.1
3389. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=26#viii.xxviii-p52.1
3390. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=29#vii.iv-p23.1
3391. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=29#viii.iv-p32.1
3392. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=29#viii.xxviii-p68.1
3393. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=29#viii.xxviii-p77.1
3394. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=3&scrV=31#viii.xxviii-p16.1
3395. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=0#viii.xix-p6.1
3396. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=0#xi.xiv-p5.1
3397. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=1#viii.vii-p7.1
3398. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=1#viii.vii-p20.1
3399. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=1#viii.xxviii-p38.1
3400. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=1#viii.vii-p1.1
3401. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=1#viii.viii-p1.1
3402. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=4#viii.vii-p33.1
3403. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=9#viii.vii-p106.1
3404. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=20#vi.vi-p31.1
3405. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=33#viii.viii-p16.1
3406. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=35#ix.v-p16.1
3407. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=35#viii.xxiii-p124.1
3408. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=35#viii.xxxv-p24.1
3409. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=35#xi.xiv-p12.1
3410. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=43#viii.ix-p1.4
3411. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=43#viii.ix-p12.1
3412. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=44#viii.ix-p22.1
3413. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=44#viii.xi-p29.1
3414. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=45#viii.ix-p3.1
3415. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=45#xi.xiv-p9.1
3416. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=45#viii.ix-p13.1
3417. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=46#viii.xix-p28.1
3418. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=46#viii.xxii-p29.1
3419. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=4&scrV=47#xi.xiv-p9.2
3420. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=0#viii.xvi-p5.1
3421. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=0#viii.xvi-p5.2
3422. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=0#viii.xii-p1.1
3423. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=0#viii.xii-p9.1
3424. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=0#viii.xxix-p10.1
3425. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=0#viii.xxxv-p19.1
3426. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=0#viii.xxxv-p27.1
3427. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=0#viii.xxxv-p27.2
3428. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=0#xi.xiv-p7.1
3429. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=0#xi.xvi-p32.1
3430. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=1#viii.xii-p3.3
3431. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=1#viii.ix-p16.1
3432. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=1#xi.xiv-p10.1
3433. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=3#xi.xiv-p11.1
3434. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=7#viii.xii-p19.1
3435. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=8#viii.xvi-p11.1
3436. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=9#viii.xxxv-p11.1
3437. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=15#viii.ii-p8.1
3438. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=16#viii.xxxv-p11.1
3439. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=16#ix.xiii-p84.1
3440. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=16#ix.xiii-p87.1
3441. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=17#viii.xii-p26.1
3442. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=18#viii.xvi-p6.2
3443. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=18#ix.vi-p31.1
3444. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=27#viii.xvi-p7.1
3445. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=5&scrV=36#viii.xvi-p12.1
3446. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=0#ix.iv-p30.1
3447. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=0#viii.xxviii-p24.1
3448. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=1#viii.xxviii-p8.1
3449. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=1#viii.xxix-p1.4
3450. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=2#viii.vii-p4.1
3451. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=3#viii.xxix-p24.1
3452. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=4#ix.iv-p27.1
3453. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=4#viii.xxix-p12.1
3454. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=4#viii.xxix-p28.1
3455. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=4#viii.xxxi-p30.1
3456. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=6#viii.viii-p57.1
3457. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=6#viii.xxix-p33.1
3458. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=9#viii.xxix-p36.1
3459. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=9#viii.xxix-p42.1
3460. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=10#viii.xxix-p54.1
3461. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=10#viii.xxxvi-p12.3
3462. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=15#viii.xxx-p5.1
3463. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=17#viii.xxxi-p9.1
3464. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=19#viii.xxv-p3.3
3465. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=19#viii.xxx-p33.3
3466. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=21#viii.xxv-p3.2
3467. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=21#viii.xxx-p35.1
3468. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=21#viii.xxx-p41.1
3469. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=22#viii.xxix-p19.2
3470. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=22#viii.xxx-p26.1
3471. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=22#viii.xxxi-p17.1
3472. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=22#viii.xxxi-p28.1
3473. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=22#viii.xxxii-p1.1
3474. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=24#viii.xxxi-p42.3
3475. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=25#viii.xxxii-p6.1
3476. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=25#viii.xxxii-p18.1
3477. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=29#viii.xii-p49.1
3478. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=30#viii.xxxii-p26.1
3479. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=31#x.xv-p75.1
3480. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=37#viii.xxxii-p41.1
3481. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=40#viii.xxxii-p50.1
3482. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=41#viii.xxxii-p53.1
3483. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=42#vii.x-p114.2
3484. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=48#viii.xxix-p61.1
3485. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=49#viii.v-p17.1
3486. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=51#x.viii-p12.1
3487. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=53#viii.xxxii-p7.1
3488. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=59#viii.v-p17.1
3489. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=59#viii.xxxi-p15.1
3490. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=59#viii.xxxi-p35.1
3491. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=60#viii.xxxi-p38.1
3492. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=60#viii.xxxvii-p23.1
3493. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=66#viii.xxxii-p81.1
3494. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=66#viii.xxiii-p97.1
3495. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=67#viii.xxxvii-p24.1
3496. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=68#x.xii-p15.1
3497. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=68#ix.vi-p27.1
3498. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=6&scrV=69#viii.xxxvii-p40.1
3499. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=0#ix.iv-p3.1
3500. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=0#ix.iv-p31.1
3501. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=0#ix.vi-p35.1
3502. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=0#viii.xxxvi-p44.1
3503. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=1#viii.xxxvii-p22.1
3504. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=1#ix.iv-p1.1
3505. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=2#ix.iv-p28.1
3506. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=2#xi.xiv-p10.2
3507. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=3#viii.i-p66.1
3508. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=4#x.xi-p98.4
3509. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=11#ix.iv-p42.2
3510. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=11#ix.vi-p1.1
3511. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=13#x.xi-p98.4
3512. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=14#ix.iv-p42.2
3513. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=14#ix.v-p85.2
3514. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=15#ix.vi-p23.1
3515. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=15#viii.ii-p7.1
3516. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=16#ix.vi-p25.1
3517. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=17#ix.vii-p46.1
3518. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=18#ix.vi-p29.1
3519. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=19#ix.vi-p33.1
3520. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=20#viii.xiv-p10.5
3521. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=25#ix.vi-p39.1
3522. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=26#x.vi-p39.1
3523. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=26#x.xi-p98.4
3524. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=28#x.iii-p75.1
3525. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=29#ix.vi-p45.1
3526. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=35#vi.i-p30.1
3527. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=37#ix.vii-p1.1
3528. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=37#x.iii-p84.1
3529. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=40#viii.ix-p23.4
3530. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=50#x.xv-p227.1
3531. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=50#vii.xi-p43.1
3532. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=53#ix.vii-p55.1
3533. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=7&scrV=53#ix.viii-p3.1
3534. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=8&scrV=3#viii.ii-p9.1
3535. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=8&scrV=12#ix.viii-p35.1
3536. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=8&scrV=12#ix.viii-p1.1
3537. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=8&scrV=13#ix.viii-p40.1
3538. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=8&scrV=14#ix.viii-p45.1
3539. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=8&scrV=19#ix.viii-p49.1
3540. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=8&scrV=20#ix.viii-p6.1
3541. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=8&scrV=22#ix.viii-p52.1
3542. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=8&scrV=28#ix.ix-p24.1
3543. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=8&scrV=33#vii.xi-p120.1
3544. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=8&scrV=34#ix.viii-p73.1
3545. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=8&scrV=39#vii.xi-p120.1
3546. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=8&scrV=44#viii.i-p22.5
3547. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=8&scrV=48#viii.vii-p44.1
3548. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=8&scrV=48#ix.xi-p26.1
3549. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=8&scrV=50#ix.viii-p101.1
3550. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=8&scrV=52#viii.xxxvii-p84.1
3551. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=8&scrV=53#vii.xi-p120.1
3552. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=8&scrV=56#vii.v-p5.1
3553. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=8&scrV=56#vii.vii-p7.1
3554. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=9&scrV=0#ix.ix-p1.1
3555. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=9&scrV=3#viii.xii-p43.1
3556. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=9&scrV=4#ix.ix-p22.1
3557. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=9&scrV=6#viii.xxxiv-p12.1
3558. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=9&scrV=7#ix.vii-p19.1
3559. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=9&scrV=11#ix.ix-p29.1
3560. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=9&scrV=14#ix.ix-p4.1
3561. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=9&scrV=15#ix.ix-p40.1
3562. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=9&scrV=16#viii.xxxi-p45.1
3563. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=9&scrV=24#viii.xxxi-p45.1
3564. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=9&scrV=26#ix.ix-p65.1
3565. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=9&scrV=32#ix.xxi-p122.1
3566. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=9&scrV=35#ix.ix-p7.1
3567. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=9&scrV=35#ix.ix-p70.1
3568. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=9&scrV=36#ix.ix-p73.1
3569. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=0#viii.xxiii-p44.1
3570. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=0#ix.xiii-p34.1
3571. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=1#ix.x-p8.1
3572. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=1#ix.x-p1.1
3573. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=4#ix.x-p12.1
3574. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=6#ix.x-p5.1
3575. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=11#ix.x-p43.1
3576. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=11#x.viii-p13.1
3577. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=13#ix.xiv-p35.1
3578. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=15#x.viii-p13.1
3579. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=17#ix.x-p36.1
3580. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=18#ix.x-p39.1
3581. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=19#ix.xi-p3.1
3582. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=19#ix.iv-p5.4
3583. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=22#ix.ix-p3.1
3584. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=22#ix.xiv-p5.1
3585. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=22#ix.xi-p4.1
3586. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=22#ix.xi-p10.1
3587. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=22#ix.xiv-p1.2
3588. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=23#ix.vi-p18.1
3589. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=27#ix.xiv-p29.1
3590. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=37#ix.xiv-p48.1
3591. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=10&scrV=39#ix.iv-p5.5
3592. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=0#ix.iv-p6.1
3593. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=0#ix.v-p86.1
3594. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=0#ix.xix-p8.1
3595. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=0#ix.xx-p76.1
3596. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=0#x.x-p45.1
3597. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=1#ix.xxi-p1.1
3598. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=2#ix.xxi-p14.1
3599. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=4#ix.xxi-p113.1
3600. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=6#viii.xxvi-p101.1
3601. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=8#ix.xx-p34.1
3602. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=8#ix.xxiii-p55.1
3603. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=16#ix.xxiii-p55.1
3604. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=20#ix.xxi-p31.1
3605. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=33#viii.xxxiv-p40.5
3606. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=35#x.ii-p13.1
3607. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=38#viii.xxxiv-p40.5
3608. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=41#ix.xxi-p124.1
3609. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=45#ix.xxi-p15.1
3610. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=47#x.viii-p36.1
3611. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=47#vii.viii-p19.1
3612. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=47#vii.xi-p44.1
3613. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=48#viii.xxvii-p79.1
3614. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=49#vii.xi-p48.1
3615. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=54#ix.iv-p12.3
3616. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=54#ix.iv-p14.1
3617. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=54#ix.v-p5.1
3618. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=55#viii.v-p23.1
3619. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=55#ix.xxiv-p1.5
3620. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=55#ix.xxiv-p34.1
3621. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=11&scrV=57#x.viii-p37.1
3622. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=0#x.i-p35.2
3623. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=0#x.ii-p28.1
3624. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=1#ix.xxiv-p36.1
3625. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=1#ix.xxiv-p41.1
3626. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=2#ix.xxiv-p1.8
3627. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=5#x.viii-p26.1
3628. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=10#ix.xxiv-p38.1
3629. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=12#x.i-p18.1
3630. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=12#x.i-p1.4
3631. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=16#x.i-p26.1
3632. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=18#x.i-p29.1
3633. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=19#x.i-p19.2
3634. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=20#x.iii-p1.9
3635. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=20#x.iii-p58.1
3636. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=21#viii.xxix-p7.1
3637. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=21#viii.xxxi-p5.1
3638. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=23#x.iii-p65.1
3639. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=25#x.iv-p62.12
3640. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=31#ix.v-p46.1
3641. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=32#viii.xxxii-p58.1
3642. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=32#ix.viii-p61.1
3643. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=36#x.iii-p83.1
3644. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=40#xi.ii-p11.12
3645. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=42#ix.ix-p45.3
3646. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=12&scrV=44#x.iii-p90.1
3647. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=0#ix.xxiii-p77.1
3648. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=0#x.x-p35.1
3649. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=0#x.x-p39.1
3650. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=0#x.x-p43.1
3651. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=1#x.ix-p1.4
3652. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=1#x.x-p1.4
3653. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=2#x.viii-p21.1
3654. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=2#x.x-p13.1
3655. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=2#x.x-p14.1
3656. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=2#x.x-p1.10
3657. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=4#viii.xxi-p49.1
3658. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=11#x.x-p54.1
3659. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=12#x.x-p37.1
3660. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=12#x.x-p56.1
3661. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=17#x.x-p65.1
3662. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=18#x.x-p70.1
3663. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=20#x.x-p77.1
3664. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=21#x.x-p85.1
3665. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=21#x.x-p1.14
3666. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=22#x.x-p87.1
3667. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=24#x.x-p23.1
3668. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=24#x.x-p88.1
3669. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=26#x.x-p20.1
3670. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=26#x.x-p1.16
3671. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=27#x.viii-p49.1
3672. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=28#x.x-p94.1
3673. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=30#x.x-p96.1
3674. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=31#x.x-p106.1
3675. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=33#x.xi-p10.1
3676. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=36#viii.iii-p84.1
3677. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=13&scrV=37#x.xvii-p103.2
3678. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=0#x.xi-p1.1
3679. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=0#x.xi-p2.1
3680. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=0#x.xi-p4.3
3681. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=0#x.xi-p9.1
3682. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=0#x.xi-p111.1
3683. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=1#x.xi-p18.1
3684. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=5#x.xi-p84.1
3685. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=7#x.xi-p21.1
3686. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=8#viii.xxix-p34.1
3687. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=12#x.xi-p56.1
3688. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=15#x.xi-p27.1
3689. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=20#x.xi-p34.1
3690. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=22#viii.xvii-p129.2
3691. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=26#vi.iv-p105.1
3692. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=27#x.xi-p40.1
3693. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=14&scrV=30#x.xi-p45.1
3694. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=15&scrV=0#viii.xxiii-p45.1
3695. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=15&scrV=0#viii.xxx-p1.2
3696. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=15&scrV=0#x.xi-p1.1
3697. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=15&scrV=0#x.xi-p111.1
3698. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=15&scrV=0#x.xi-p124.1
3699. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=15&scrV=7#x.xi-p59.1
3700. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=15&scrV=11#x.xi-p63.1
3701. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=15&scrV=16#x.xi-p56.2
3702. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=15&scrV=16#x.xi-p68.1
3703. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=16&scrV=0#x.xi-p1.1
3704. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=16&scrV=0#x.xi-p5.3
3705. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=16&scrV=0#x.xi-p80.1
3706. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=16&scrV=0#x.xi-p111.1
3707. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=16&scrV=1#x.xi-p82.1
3708. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=16&scrV=7#x.xi-p86.1
3709. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=16&scrV=8#x.xi-p91.1
3710. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=16&scrV=13#ii-p4.3
3711. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=16&scrV=23#x.xi-p96.1
3712. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=16&scrV=30#x.xi-p101.1
3713. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=16&scrV=31#viii.iii-p84.2
3714. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=16&scrV=32#x.xi-p103.1
3715. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=17&scrV=0#x.xi-p1.1
3716. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=17&scrV=0#x.xi-p6.1
3717. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=17&scrV=0#x.xi-p107.1
3718. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=17&scrV=0#x.xi-p111.1
3719. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=17&scrV=3#x.xi-p116.1
3720. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=17&scrV=6#x.xi-p120.1
3721. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=17&scrV=9#x.xi-p122.1
3722. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=17&scrV=12#x.xi-p127.1
3723. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=17&scrV=12#x.xii-p73.1
3724. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=17&scrV=15#x.xii-p21.1
3725. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=17&scrV=28#x.ix-p20.1
3726. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=17&scrV=33#vii.xi-p71.1
3727. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=0#x.xiii-p79.1
3728. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=1#x.ix-p9.4
3729. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=1#x.xi-p7.1
3730. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=1#x.ix-p50.1
3731. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=1#x.xii-p1.4
3732. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=3#x.xii-p63.1
3733. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=5#x.xii-p70.1
3734. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=11#x.xii-p77.1
3735. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=12#x.xii-p60.1
3736. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=12#x.xiii-p1.1
3737. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=13#vii.xi-p49.1
3738. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=13#x.xiii-p10.1
3739. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=14#x.xiii-p4.1
3740. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=15#x.xiii-p1.5
3741. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=15#x.xiii-p31.1
3742. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=15#x.xiii-p12.1
3743. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=15#x.xiii-p30.1
3744. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=17#x.xiii-p1.10
3745. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=19#x.xiii-p1.6
3746. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=19#x.xiii-p15.1
3747. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=19#x.xiii-p20.1
3748. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=20#x.xiii-p24.1
3749. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=24#x.xiii-p1.5
3750. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=24#x.xiii-p17.1
3751. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=25#x.xiii-p1.14
3752. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=26#x.xii-p77.1
3753. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=26#x.xiii-p1.21
3754. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=28#x.ix-p21.1
3755. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=28#x.xiii-p67.1
3756. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=28#x.xiv-p3.1
3757. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=28#x.xiv-p11.3
3758. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=28#x.xiv-p1.4
3759. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=29#x.xiv-p4.1
3760. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=31#x.xii-p54.1
3761. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=31#x.xiii-p81.1
3762. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=32#x.xiv-p31.1
3763. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=36#ix.xx-p16.1
3764. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=18&scrV=37#x.xiv-p35.1
3765. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=0#x.xiv-p1.14
3766. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=0#x.xiv-p81.1
3767. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=1#x.xiv-p80.1
3768. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=2#x.xv-p114.1
3769. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=7#x.xii-p54.2
3770. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=13#x.xiv-p92.3
3771. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=14#viii.viii-p22.2
3772. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=16#x.xv-p3.1
3773. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=16#x.xv-p1.4
3774. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=19#x.xv-p61.1
3775. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=20#x.xv-p26.1
3776. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=21#x.xv-p63.1
3777. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=21#x.xv-p65.1
3778. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=23#viii.xxvi-p56.1
3779. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=23#viii.xxvi-p79.1
3780. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=23#viii.xxvi-p80.1
3781. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=23#viii.xxvi-p86.1
3782. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=25#vii.x-p112.1
3783. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=25#viii.xvii-p126.1
3784. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=25#viii.xvii-p132.1
3785. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=25#x.xv-p7.1
3786. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=25#x.xv-p121.2
3787. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=25#x.xv-p1.8
3788. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=25#x.xv-p118.1
3789. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=26#viii.iv-p62.2
3790. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=26#viii.iv-p67.1
3791. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=27#viii.vi-p22.1
3792. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=28#x.xv-p132.1
3793. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=28#x.xv-p155.1
3794. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=28#x.xv-p1.12
3795. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=31#x.xv-p194.3
3796. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=31#x.xv-p1.13
3797. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=31#x.xv-p88.1
3798. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=38#x.xv-p1.17
3799. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=39#viii.vi-p17.1
3800. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=41#x.xv-p224.2
3801. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=19&scrV=42#x.xv-p224.1
3802. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=20&scrV=0#x.xvi-p5.1
3803. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=20&scrV=1#x.xvii-p7.1
3804. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=20&scrV=1#x.xvii-p1.4
3805. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=20&scrV=2#x.xvii-p29.1
3806. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=20&scrV=9#x.xvi-p12.1
3807. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=20&scrV=11#x.xvii-p24.2
3808. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=20&scrV=16#vi.viii-p4.3
3809. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=20&scrV=19#x.xvii-p1.11
3810. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=20&scrV=20#x.xvii-p64.2
3811. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=20&scrV=23#viii.xxxvii-p72.1
3812. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=20&scrV=26#x.xvii-p1.12
3813. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=20&scrV=27#x.xv-p203.1
3814. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=20&scrV=30#viii.xii-p37.1
3815. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=20&scrV=30#viii.vii-p28.1
3816. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=20&scrV=30#x.xvii-p86.1
3817. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=20&scrV=31#vii.iv-p5.2
3818. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=20&scrV=31#vii.vi-p25.1
3819. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=20&scrV=31#viii.xii-p38.1
3820. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=21&scrV=1#x.xvii-p1.14
3821. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=21&scrV=2#viii.iii-p87.1
3822. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=21&scrV=2#x.xii-p8.1
3823. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=21&scrV=2#x.xvii-p21.1
3824. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=21&scrV=3#x.xvii-p93.1
3825. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=21&scrV=9#x.xvii-p100.1
3826. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=21&scrV=9#viii.xxix-p50.1
3827. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=21&scrV=13#viii.xxix-p50.1
3828. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=21&scrV=13#x.xvi-p33.2
3829. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=21&scrV=15#x.xii-p17.1
3830. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=John&scrCh=21&scrV=25#ix.v-p37.1
3831. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=1&scrV=0#vi.vi-p48.1
3832. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=1&scrV=0#vii.x-p109.2
3833. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=1&scrV=2#x.xvii-p70.2
3834. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=1&scrV=3#vii.xi-p107.5
3835. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=1&scrV=3#vii.xi-p108.4
3836. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=1&scrV=3#vii.xi-p109.4
3837. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=1&scrV=3#vii.xi-p110.4
3838. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=1&scrV=3#vii.xi-p111.4
3839. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=1&scrV=3#vii.xi-p112.4
3840. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=1&scrV=3#x.xvi-p4.1
3841. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=1&scrV=3#x.xvii-p1.20
3842. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=1&scrV=5#x.xvii-p70.2
3843. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=1&scrV=14#vii.x-p105.5
3844. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=1&scrV=18#x.xiv-p58.1
3845. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=1&scrV=18#x.xiv-p60.1
3846. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=1&scrV=19#ix.xxi-p41.2
3847. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=1&scrV=24#vii.xi-p14.2
3848. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=2&scrV=9#vi.i-p28.1
3849. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=2&scrV=9#vii.x-p60.1
3850. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=2&scrV=46#ix.xix-p44.2
3851. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=3&scrV=1#x.xv-p78.1
3852. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=3&scrV=2#vii.x-p71.1
3853. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=3&scrV=2#ix.ix-p6.1
3854. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=3&scrV=10#viii.xiv-p36.5
3855. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=3&scrV=17#x.xv-p78.1
3856. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=3&scrV=21#ix.xxiii-p44.1
3857. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=4&scrV=1#viii.ii-p60.2
3858. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=4&scrV=5#vi.viii-p11.4
3859. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=4&scrV=6#vii.x-p40.1
3860. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=4&scrV=6#vii.xi-p47.1
3861. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=5&scrV=12#ix.vi-p19.1
3862. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=5&scrV=17#viii.ii-p19.8
3863. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=5&scrV=17#viii.ii-p117.1
3864. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=5&scrV=21#vi.viii-p44.5
3865. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=5&scrV=31#vii.xi-p113.2
3866. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=5&scrV=32#vii.x-p99.1
3867. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=5&scrV=32#x.xi-p77.1
3868. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=5&scrV=34#vi.viii-p4.1
3869. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=5&scrV=34#vi.viii-p10.4
3870. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=5&scrV=36#x.vi-p157.1
3871. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=5&scrV=37#vii.x-p14.1
3872. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=5&scrV=37#vii.x-p48.1
3873. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=5&scrV=37#vii.vi-p7.1
3874. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=5&scrV=37#vii.vi-p10.1
3875. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=5&scrV=37#x.iii-p28.1
3876. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=6&scrV=1#vi.i-p31.1
3877. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=6&scrV=1#vi.i-p35.1
3878. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=6&scrV=1#vi.ii-p3.1
3879. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=6&scrV=7#x.xv-p188.1
3880. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=7&scrV=34#viii.xxxiv-p13.7
3881. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=7&scrV=37#viii.iii-p25.1
3882. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=7&scrV=38#vi.iv-p37.2
3883. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=7&scrV=38#viii.iii-p38.1
3884. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=7&scrV=38#viii.xxxvii-p64.1
3885. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=7&scrV=53#vi.iv-p37.2
3886. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=7&scrV=54#viii.xix-p52.2
3887. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=8&scrV=9#vii.viii-p6.1
3888. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=8&scrV=32#viii.iii-p35.3
3889. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=9&scrV=6#viii.xiv-p36.4
3890. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=9&scrV=7#vii.vi-p37.1
3891. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=9&scrV=25#viii.xxxvi-p8.6
3892. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=10&scrV=0#vi.vi-p15.1
3893. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=10&scrV=0#viii.xxxi-p173.1
3894. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=10&scrV=2#xi.xii-p4.5
3895. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=10&scrV=7#xi.xii-p4.5
3896. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=10&scrV=9#xi.xiii-p10.2
3897. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=10&scrV=48#viii.xxxvii-p69.1
3898. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=11&scrV=20#vi.vii-p16.1
3899. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=11&scrV=26#vi.vii-p15.1
3900. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=11&scrV=28#vii.vi-p12.4
3901. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=12&scrV=12#x.x-p4.1
3902. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=12&scrV=12#x.xvi-p7.1
3903. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=12&scrV=13#x.ix-p49.1
3904. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=12&scrV=13#x.xiii-p32.1
3905. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=12&scrV=23#vi.vii-p38.1
3906. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=12&scrV=25#x.x-p4.1
3907. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=13&scrV=1#x.xv-p37.1
3908. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=13&scrV=12#viii.xiv-p6.4
3909. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=13&scrV=15#vi.ii-p16.3
3910. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=13&scrV=15#viii.x-p66.2
3911. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=13&scrV=16#xi.xii-p4.1
3912. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=13&scrV=24#ix.i-p39.3
3913. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=13&scrV=26#xi.xii-p4.1
3914. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=13&scrV=41#viii.v-p66.1
3915. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=13&scrV=42#ix.xvi-p37.6
3916. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=13&scrV=43#xi.xii-p4.2
3917. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=13&scrV=50#xi.xii-p4.3
3918. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=14&scrV=23#x.xv-p174.4
3919. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=15&scrV=0#vi.vii-p17.1
3920. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=15&scrV=0#xi.xiii-p10.1
3921. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=15&scrV=7#viii.xxxvii-p68.1
3922. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=15&scrV=10#ix.v-p66.1
3923. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=15&scrV=13#xi.xiii-p12.1
3924. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=15&scrV=21#vi.vi-p24.1
3925. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=15&scrV=22#x.xvii-p76.1
3926. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=16&scrV=0#vi.vi-p26.1
3927. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=16&scrV=14#xi.xii-p4.4
3928. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=16&scrV=19#x.xiv-p23.1
3929. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=17&scrV=31#viii.xxx-p20.1
3930. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=17&scrV=32#viii.xx-p70.1
3931. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=17&scrV=32#x.xvi-p25.1
3932. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=19&scrV=3#vii.xi-p150.1
3933. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=19&scrV=14#vi.vi-p3.1
3934. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=19&scrV=16#ix.xxiii-p72.1
3935. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=21&scrV=0#x.xii-p38.1
3936. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=21&scrV=31#viii.v-p59.1
3937. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=22&scrV=3#viii.ii-p54.3
3938. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=22&scrV=25#vi.vi-p2.1
3939. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=22&scrV=30#x.xiv-p26.1
3940. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=23&scrV=0#viii.ii-p69.1
3941. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=24&scrV=5#viii.ii-p19.4
3942. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=24&scrV=14#viii.ii-p19.4
3943. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=26&scrV=5#viii.ii-p54.4
3944. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=26&scrV=7#vi.vi-p77.1
3945. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=26&scrV=7#ix.xxiii-p47.1
3946. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=26&scrV=8#viii.xxx-p18.1
3947. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=26&scrV=24#ix.vi-p24.1
3948. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=27&scrV=9#xi.xiv-p14.1
3949. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Acts&scrCh=28&scrV=17#vi.v-p71.1
3950. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=1&scrV=3#vii.iv-p29.2
3951. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=1&scrV=3#viii.viii-p67.1
3952. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=1&scrV=4#viii.xxxvii-p38.1
3953. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=2&scrV=0#ix.xx-p25.1
3954. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=2&scrV=0#x.v-p25.1
3955. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=2&scrV=17#vi.vi-p16.1
3956. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=2&scrV=25#viii.xxxvii-p57.1
3957. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=3&scrV=10#viii.xi-p20.1
3958. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=3&scrV=24#ix.xxiii-p78.1
3959. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=4&scrV=3#viii.vii-p9.1
3960. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=4&scrV=4#x.v-p22.1
3961. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=5&scrV=12#xi.i-p19.3
3962. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=5&scrV=14#ix.xv-p4.1
3963. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=5&scrV=18#xi.xviii-p18.4
3964. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=7&scrV=0#ix.xv-p22.1
3965. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=8&scrV=19#ix.xxiii-p44.2
3966. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=8&scrV=23#viii.xxxiv-p13.3
3967. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=9&scrV=5#viii.viii-p68.1
3968. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=10&scrV=10#viii.xxxvii-p36.1
3969. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=11&scrV=0#x.v-p24.1
3970. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=11&scrV=11#x.v-p26.1
3971. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=13&scrV=11#vi.iii-p43.1
3972. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=14&scrV=17#vii.xi-p107.6
3973. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=16&scrV=13#x.xv-p37.2
3974. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rom&scrCh=16&scrV=25#vii.xi-p62.1
3975. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=4&scrV=20#vii.xi-p107.7
3976. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=5&scrV=4#x.xvii-p77.1
3977. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=5&scrV=5#ix.ix-p55.1
3978. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=5&scrV=11#ix.ix-p58.1
3979. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=5&scrV=12#x.xvii-p77.1
3980. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=5&scrV=13#x.xvii-p77.1
3981. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=6&scrV=2#ix.xxiii-p45.1
3982. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=6&scrV=9#vii.xi-p112.5
3983. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=6&scrV=20#ix.xxiii-p78.2
3984. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=7&scrV=1#ix.xxii-p75.1
3985. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=7&scrV=25#ix.xxii-p75.1
3986. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=7&scrV=30#ix.xiii-p38.1
3987. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=9&scrV=5#vii.x-p105.6
3988. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=9&scrV=9#vi.iii-p26.2
3989. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=9&scrV=9#x.iv-p55.7
3990. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=9&scrV=25#ix.xx-p16.2
3991. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=9&scrV=27#ix.xix-p36.1
3992. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=10&scrV=0#x.x-p116.1
3993. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=10&scrV=1#vi.iv-p49.5
3994. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=10&scrV=6#viii.xxiii-p53.1
3995. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=10&scrV=6#ix.xv-p5.1
3996. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=10&scrV=10#x.x-p113.1
3997. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=10&scrV=11#viii.xxiii-p53.1
3998. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=10&scrV=11#ix.xv-p5.1
3999. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=10&scrV=16#x.x-p109.2
4000. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=11&scrV=19#viii.ii-p19.5
4001. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=11&scrV=23#x.ix-p41.1
4002. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=11&scrV=23#x.x-p109.1
4003. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=11&scrV=24#x.x-p110.1
4004. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=11&scrV=30#viii.xii-p23.7
4005. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=12&scrV=3#vii.vii-p5.1
4006. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=12&scrV=28#x.viii-p27.1
4007. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=12&scrV=31#viii.xv-p6.1
4008. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=13&scrV=9#vii.v-p109.1
4009. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=13&scrV=12#ix.xx-p12.1
4010. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=14&scrV=27#vi.i-p66.1
4011. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=14&scrV=27#vi.i-p66.5
4012. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=14&scrV=27#viii.x-p124.1
4013. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=0#xi.i-p19.1
4014. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=1#viii.xxx-p21.1
4015. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=4#x.xvi-p8.1
4016. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=5#x.xvii-p1.8
4017. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=5#x.xvii-p57.1
4018. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=6#x.xvii-p1.17
4019. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=6#x.xvii-p91.1
4020. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=7#x.xv-p116.1
4021. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=12#viii.xx-p70.2
4022. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=12#viii.xxx-p19.1
4023. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=14#x.xvi-p27.1
4024. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=17#x.xvi-p27.1
4025. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=20#xi.xviii-p18.5
4026. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=24#xi.xviii-p16.3
4027. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=35#xi.i-p19.2
4028. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=15&scrV=60#viii.xxxvii-p47.1
4029. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Cor&scrCh=16&scrV=22#x.iv-p62.15
4030. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=1&scrV=8#ix.i-p23.1
4031. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=2&scrV=6#x.xvii-p77.2
4032. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=2&scrV=10#x.xvii-p77.2
4033. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=3&scrV=16#vi.iii-p26.3
4034. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=4&scrV=1#ix.xix-p21.2
4035. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=4&scrV=16#ix.xix-p21.2
4036. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=5&scrV=2#viii.xxxiv-p13.4
4037. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=5&scrV=4#viii.xxxiv-p13.4
4038. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=5&scrV=15#x.xv-p148.3
4039. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=7&scrV=8#x.v-p43.3
4040. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=7&scrV=8#x.xiv-p49.7
4041. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Cor&scrCh=7&scrV=11#ix.xxii-p79.4
4042. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=1&scrV=16#viii.xxxvii-p47.2
4043. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=1&scrV=17#vi.i-p85.1
4044. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=1&scrV=18#x.xvi-p23.1
4045. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=1&scrV=19#vii.x-p105.7
4046. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=2&scrV=11#viii.xxxi-p175.1
4047. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=3&scrV=13#x.xv-p149.1
4048. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=3&scrV=19#vi.iv-p37.3
4049. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=4&scrV=21#vi.iii-p26.4
4050. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=5&scrV=20#viii.ii-p19.6
4051. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=5&scrV=21#vii.xi-p112.6
4052. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Gal&scrCh=6&scrV=9#ix.xix-p21.3
4053. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=1&scrV=9#vii.xi-p62.2
4054. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=1&scrV=10#xi.xviii-p18.6
4055. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=3&scrV=13#ix.xix-p21.4
4056. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=4&scrV=8#viii.i-p18.1
4057. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=4&scrV=16#vi.vii-p12.1
4058. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=5&scrV=5#vii.xi-p112.7
4059. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Eph&scrCh=6&scrV=12#viii.xxxvii-p47.3
4060. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=1&scrV=0#vi.iv-p7.1
4061. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=2&scrV=5#x.x-p75.1
4062. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=2&scrV=6#viii.xxiv-p5.1
4063. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=2&scrV=6#vii.v-p9.1
4064. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=2&scrV=7#x.viii-p46.1
4065. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=2&scrV=8#x.xi-p119.1
4066. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=2&scrV=11#x.xi-p119.1
4067. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=3&scrV=17#ix.xv-p5.2
4068. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Phil&scrCh=100&scrV=0#vii.ix-p25.1
4069. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Col&scrCh=1&scrV=13#vii.xi-p109.5
4070. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Col&scrCh=1&scrV=19#xi.xviii-p18.2
4071. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Col&scrCh=1&scrV=19#xi.xviii-p18.7
4072. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Col&scrCh=1&scrV=26#vii.xi-p62.3
4073. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Col&scrCh=1&scrV=29#ix.xx-p16.3
4074. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Col&scrCh=4&scrV=11#vii.xi-p107.8
4075. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Thess&scrCh=1&scrV=0#ix.xv-p5.3
4076. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Thess&scrCh=2&scrV=12#vii.xi-p107.9
4077. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Thess&scrCh=1&scrV=5#vii.xi-p112.8
4078. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Thess&scrCh=3&scrV=13#ix.xix-p21.5
4079. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=1&scrV=7#vi.viii-p10.5
4080. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=1&scrV=18#x.xv-p174.5
4081. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=2&scrV=4#xi.xviii-p18.8
4082. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=2&scrV=6#xi.xviii-p18.8
4083. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=2&scrV=6#ix.xxiii-p78.3
4084. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=2&scrV=6#x.xv-p147.3
4085. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=2&scrV=8#viii.x-p98.1
4086. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=3&scrV=0#x.xiii-p57.1
4087. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=4&scrV=12#viii.xxiii-p52.1
4088. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=4&scrV=12#ix.xv-p5.4
4089. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=5&scrV=0#ix.ix-p50.1
4090. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=5&scrV=16#ix.i-p23.2
4091. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=5&scrV=17#vi.i-p71.1
4092. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=5&scrV=18#viii.xxvii-p41.1
4093. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=5&scrV=18#x.iv-p55.8
4094. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Tim&scrCh=6&scrV=12#ix.xx-p16.4
4095. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Tim&scrCh=1&scrV=10#viii.xxvi-p123.1
4096. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Tim&scrCh=2&scrV=2#x.xv-p174.6
4097. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Tim&scrCh=2&scrV=8#vii.iv-p29.3
4098. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Tim&scrCh=3&scrV=1#xi.i-p18.2
4099. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Tim&scrCh=3&scrV=5#xi.i-p18.3
4100. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Tim&scrCh=3&scrV=15#vii.ix-p81.1
4101. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Tim&scrCh=4&scrV=1#vii.xi-p111.5
4102. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Tim&scrCh=4&scrV=7#ix.xx-p16.5
4103. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Titus&scrCh=1&scrV=0#x.xiii-p57.2
4104. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Titus&scrCh=1&scrV=5#x.xiii-p59.1
4105. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Titus&scrCh=2&scrV=7#ix.xv-p5.5
4106. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Titus&scrCh=2&scrV=14#x.xv-p146.1
4107. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Titus&scrCh=3&scrV=5#vii.xi-p105.1
4108. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Titus&scrCh=3&scrV=5#xi.xii-p6.1
4109. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Titus&scrCh=3&scrV=10#viii.ii-p19.7
4110. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Titus&scrCh=3&scrV=10#ix.iii-p101.1
4111. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Phlm&scrCh=1&scrV=2#viii.x-p21.1
4112. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=1&scrV=0#vi.vi-p47.1
4113. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=2&scrV=0#x.vi-p29.1
4114. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=2&scrV=2#vi.iv-p37.4
4115. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=2&scrV=6#viii.xxx-p13.2
4116. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=2&scrV=9#xi.xviii-p18.9
4117. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=2&scrV=10#viii.iv-p5.1
4118. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=4&scrV=11#x.x-p57.3
4119. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=4&scrV=15#viii.i-p31.1
4120. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=4&scrV=15#viii.i-p34.1
4121. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=4&scrV=15#viii.i-p46.1
4122. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=4&scrV=16#x.xi-p98.3
4123. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=5&scrV=7#x.xii-p36.1
4124. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=5&scrV=7#x.xii-p43.3
4125. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=6&scrV=6#vii.iv-p63.3
4126. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=7&scrV=14#vii.iv-p29.4
4127. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=7&scrV=18#ix.xvii-p37.1
4128. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=7&scrV=21#x.v-p43.4
4129. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=7&scrV=21#x.xiv-p49.8
4130. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=9&scrV=9#vii.xii-p6.1
4131. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=9&scrV=12#x.xv-p143.3
4132. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=9&scrV=13#vii.xii-p6.1
4133. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=9&scrV=18#ix.xiv-p13.7
4134. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=11&scrV=0#vii.v-p82.1
4135. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=12&scrV=1#ix.xxi-p106.1
4136. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=12&scrV=28#vii.xi-p111.6
4137. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=13&scrV=2#vi.ii-p15.3
4138. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Heb&scrCh=13&scrV=17#viii.xxxiv-p13.5
4139. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=1&scrV=14#viii.i-p32.1
4140. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=1&scrV=14#viii.i-p35.1
4141. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=2&scrV=5#vii.xi-p112.9
4142. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=2&scrV=9#x.xi-p88.3
4143. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=4&scrV=4#x.iv-p62.7
4144. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=5&scrV=9#viii.xxxiv-p13.6
4145. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Jas&scrCh=5&scrV=10#x.x-p57.4
4146. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=1&scrV=1#vi.i-p15.1
4147. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=1&scrV=3#viii.vi-p19.3
4148. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=1&scrV=19#ix.xxiii-p78.4
4149. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=1&scrV=19#x.xv-p145.1
4150. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=1&scrV=23#viii.vi-p19.3
4151. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=2&scrV=0#ix.xvii-p17.1
4152. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=2&scrV=22#viii.iii-p35.4
4153. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=2&scrV=24#viii.xiv-p46.4
4154. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=3&scrV=18#x.xv-p175.1
4155. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=3&scrV=21#viii.vi-p19.4
4156. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=5&scrV=0#ix.xv-p5.6
4157. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=5&scrV=3#ix.xxiii-p72.2
4158. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=5&scrV=13#vi.i-p86.1
4159. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Pet&scrCh=5&scrV=13#xi.xvii-p7.1
4160. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Pet&scrCh=1&scrV=11#vii.xi-p112.10
4161. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Pet&scrCh=1&scrV=15#ix.i-p38.1
4162. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Pet&scrCh=1&scrV=16#viii.xx-p71.1
4163. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Pet&scrCh=1&scrV=16#ix.i-p50.1
4164. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Pet&scrCh=1&scrV=17#xi.ii-p10.7
4165. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Pet&scrCh=1&scrV=19#vi.vi-p78.1
4166. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Pet&scrCh=1&scrV=19#viii.xxxvii-p17.1
4167. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Pet&scrCh=2&scrV=1#viii.ii-p19.3
4168. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Pet&scrCh=2&scrV=6#x.x-p57.5
4169. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Pet&scrCh=3&scrV=4#viii.xxx-p22.1
4170. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Pet&scrCh=3&scrV=5#vi.iv-p69.1
4171. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Pet&scrCh=3&scrV=13#ix.xxiii-p44.3
4172. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=2&scrV=2#xi.xviii-p18.10
4173. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=2&scrV=8#ix.vi-p44.5
4174. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=2&scrV=28#x.xi-p98.5
4175. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=2&scrV=29#viii.vi-p27.4
4176. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=4&scrV=10#ix.xxiii-p78.5
4177. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=5&scrV=6#x.xv-p210.1
4178. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=5&scrV=8#viii.iv-p81.1
4179. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=5&scrV=10#viii.xii-p49.2
4180. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1John&scrCh=5&scrV=18#x.xi-p126.1
4181. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=3John&scrCh=1&scrV=13#ix.xviii-p64.1
4182. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=1&scrV=7#vi.v-p20.1
4183. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=1&scrV=7#x.xv-p202.1
4184. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=1&scrV=8#vi.ii-p46.2
4185. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=1&scrV=9#vii.xi-p107.10
4186. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=1&scrV=9#vii.xi-p108.5
4187. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=1&scrV=9#vii.xi-p109.6
4188. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=1&scrV=9#vii.xi-p110.5
4189. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=1&scrV=9#vii.xi-p111.7
4190. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=1&scrV=9#vii.xi-p112.11
4191. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=1&scrV=13#viii.xxvi-p58.1
4192. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=2&scrV=4#vi.ii-p35.1
4193. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=2&scrV=4#vi.v-p42.1
4194. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=2&scrV=8#vii.iii-p7.1
4195. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=2&scrV=18#viii.x-p137.1
4196. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=2&scrV=20#viii.v-p10.1
4197. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=2&scrV=26#vii.iv-p89.1
4198. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=2&scrV=34#vi.iii-p9.1
4199. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=3&scrV=19#x.xi-p88.4
4200. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=3&scrV=20#xi.ix-p121.2
4201. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=5&scrV=8#vii.iii-p30.1
4202. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=6&scrV=10#x.xv-p47.1
4203. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=12&scrV=7#ix.v-p49.1
4204. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=20&scrV=4#ix.xxiii-p45.2
4205. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=20&scrV=10#xi.xviii-p18.1
4206. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=20&scrV=14#xi.xviii-p18.1
4207. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=20&scrV=15#xi.xviii-p18.1
4208. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=21&scrV=1#ix.xxiii-p44.4
4209. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=22&scrV=15#viii.xxxiii-p22.1
4210. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=1874&scrV=0#ix.xxi-p75.1
4211. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Rev&scrCh=1879&scrV=0#viii.viii-p4.1
4212. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Tob&scrCh=4&scrV=15#viii.xviii-p66.1
4213. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Tob&scrCh=4&scrV=15#viii.xviii-p67.1
4214. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Tob&scrCh=7&scrV=14#viii.iv-p26.1
4215. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Tob&scrCh=7&scrV=16#ix.xiii-p13.4
4216. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Tob&scrCh=8&scrV=2#viii.xiv-p20.1
4217. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Tob&scrCh=13&scrV=16#x.vi-p122.1
4218. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Wis&scrCh=2&scrV=23#vii.v-p41.4
4219. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Wis&scrCh=16&scrV=6#vi.iii-p26.1
4220. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Bar&scrCh=1&scrV=0#x.vi-p138.1
4221. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Bar&scrCh=2&scrV=0#x.vi-p138.1
4222. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Bar&scrCh=3&scrV=0#x.vi-p138.1
4223. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Bar&scrCh=3&scrV=12#viii.viii-p47.1
4224. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Bar&scrCh=4&scrV=3#x.vi-p120.1
4225. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Bar&scrCh=6&scrV=0#vi.v-p38.1
4226. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Bar&scrCh=27&scrV=22#vi.vi-p71.1
4227. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Bar&scrCh=32&scrV=4#x.vi-p122.2
4228. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Bar&scrCh=39&scrV=7#x.vi-p116.1
4229. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Bar&scrCh=74&scrV=2#x.vi-p137.1
4230. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Bar&scrCh=83&scrV=8#vi.vi-p72.1
4231. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=1&scrV=15#xi.iv-p19.2
4232. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=1&scrV=33#vii.i-p7.1
4233. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=1&scrV=54#vi.i-p6.1
4234. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=1&scrV=57#vii.ix-p115.1
4235. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=1&scrV=59#vi.i-p6.1
4236. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=2&scrV=4#xi.iv-p22.1
4237. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=2&scrV=42#viii.ii-p129.1
4238. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=2&scrV=65#xi.iv-p33.1
4239. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=2&scrV=66#xi.iv-p22.1
4240. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=4&scrV=43#xi.v-p141.1
4241. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=4&scrV=46#vi.ii-p46.1
4242. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=4&scrV=52#vi.i-p10.1
4243. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=6&scrV=30#xi.iv-p25.1
4244. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=6&scrV=31#vii.ii-p7.1
4245. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=6&scrV=52#ix.xiv-p9.1
4246. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=9&scrV=50#ix.xxiv-p6.1
4247. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=9&scrV=58#xi.iv-p30.1
4248. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=10&scrV=18#vii.iv-p39.3
4249. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=10&scrV=29#xi.iv-p16.1
4250. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=10&scrV=30#viii.vii-p74.1
4251. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=10&scrV=38#x.xv-p222.1
4252. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=12&scrV=6#vi.viii-p34.3
4253. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=12&scrV=36#vii.i-p8.1
4254. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=13&scrV=27#ix.xxi-p85.1
4255. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=13&scrV=51#xi.iv-p33.3
4256. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=14&scrV=8#xi.iv-p33.4
4257. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=14&scrV=41#xi.iv-p33.5
4258. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=1Macc&scrCh=50&scrV=54#vi.i-p11.1
4259. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Macc&scrCh=2&scrV=0#xi.ix-p367.1
4260. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Macc&scrCh=2&scrV=1#viii.xxxvii-p30.1
4261. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Macc&scrCh=2&scrV=1#xi.viii-p9.1
4262. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Macc&scrCh=2&scrV=1#xi.viii-p9.4
4263. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Macc&scrCh=2&scrV=13#xi.v-p53.2
4264. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Macc&scrCh=2&scrV=13#xi.v-p19.1
4265. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Macc&scrCh=3&scrV=4#xi.iv-p17.1
4266. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Macc&scrCh=4&scrV=8#xi.iv-p18.1
4267. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Macc&scrCh=4&scrV=9#xi.iv-p19.1
4268. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Macc&scrCh=4&scrV=19#xi.iv-p19.1
4269. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Macc&scrCh=4&scrV=25#xi.iv-p20.1
4270. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Macc&scrCh=5&scrV=2#x.vi-p105.1
4271. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Macc&scrCh=6&scrV=1#x.vi-p176.1
4272. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Macc&scrCh=6&scrV=2#viii.vii-p66.3
4273. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Macc&scrCh=6&scrV=18#vi.iii-p10.1
4274. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Macc&scrCh=10&scrV=6#ix.xiv-p16.2
4275. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Macc&scrCh=10&scrV=7#ix.xiv-p16.1
4276. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Macc&scrCh=14&scrV=6#viii.ii-p129.2
4277. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=2Esd&scrCh=7&scrV=28#xi.viii-p9.2
4278. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=1&scrV=0#vii.ii-p2.1
4279. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=1&scrV=0#viii.vii-p90.1
4280. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=1&scrV=0#xi.iv-p12.1
4281. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=3&scrV=0#vii.ix-p71.1
4282. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=3&scrV=21#vi.iv-p61.1
4283. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=7&scrV=9#vii.xii-p5.6
4284. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=7&scrV=35#viii.xii-p23.5
4285. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=11&scrV=18#ix.xvi-p13.1
4286. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=14&scrV=25#x.ix-p35.1
4287. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=15&scrV=11#vii.v-p41.5
4288. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=24&scrV=2#viii.xxxvii-p63.1
4289. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=24&scrV=6#vi.iii-p7.1
4290. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=24&scrV=21#viii.viii-p41.1
4291. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=29&scrV=12#ix.xiii-p13.5
4292. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=30&scrV=0#vii.ix-p72.1
4293. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=32&scrV=1#viii.iv-p70.1
4294. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=42&scrV=2#ix.vi-p44.11
4295. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=42&scrV=10#vii.x-p95.4
4296. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3?scrBook=Sir&scrCh=48&scrV=1#xi.viii-p19.1
4297. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ii-p4.1
4298. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p15.1
4299. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p98.3
4300. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.vi-p25.5
4301. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.vi-p25.3
4302. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.vi-p25.7
4303. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.ii-p187.1
4304. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxvii-p52.1
4305. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.ii-p185.5
4306. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.ii-p137.3
4307. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.ii-p185.1
4308. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.i-p33.1
4309. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vi-p142.2
4310. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p59.1
4311. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.ii-p53.1
4312. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p101.3
4313. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p128.1
4314. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p63.2
4315. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p24.3
4316. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xii-p23.1
4317. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xii-p23.8
4318. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xii-p15.1
4319. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiv-p52.1
4320. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vii-p13.3
4321. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xviii-p134.1
4322. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.vi-p12.5
4323. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.x-p25.1
4324. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p36.3
4325. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xvii-p104.1
4326. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.iv-p62.1
4327. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.vi-p12.1
4328. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.i-p44.3
4329. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.ii-p30.5
4330. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xiv-p13.1
4331. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xiv-p13.5
4332. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xiv-p13.3
4333. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xxi-p120.1
4334. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.i-p41.1
4335. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.ii-p6.1
4336. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxv-p30.1
4337. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xii-p34.1
4338. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xx-p24.1
4339. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.ix-p23.1
4340. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxv-p30.3
4341. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiv-p74.1
4342. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.v-p28.1
4343. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p102.3
4344. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p125.1
4345. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p99.1
4346. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiv-p92.1
4347. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p42.1
4348. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vii-p33.1
4349. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vii-p33.5
4350. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xix-p34.3
4351. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p24.5
4352. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.x-p73.3
4353. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.x-p73.7
4354. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.i-p44.2
4355. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxvii-p61.1
4356. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ii-p13.1
4357. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xxi-p120.3
4358. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.i-p41.3
4359. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xvii-p43.1
4360. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.ii-p54.1
4361. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p88.1
4362. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxvii-p78.1
4363. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xix-p9.1
4364. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.vi-p44.3
4365. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.vi-p44.9
4366. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.vi-p44.1
4367. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.vi-p44.7
4368. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.vii-p66.1
4369. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.ii-p2.1
4370. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p95.1
4371. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p219.1
4372. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.v-p12.1
4373. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxiv-p40.1
4374. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xv-p32.1
4375. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.viii-p86.5
4376. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxiii-p129.1
4377. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p122.2
4378. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p131.1
4379. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xxiii-p11.1
4380. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.iv-p152.6
4381. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xx-p5.1
4382. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p61.1
4383. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xx-p5.3
4384. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.x-p95.1
4385. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.iv-p23.1
4386. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiv-p40.1
4387. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.i-p44.1
4388. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.viii-p86.1
4389. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.x-p73.1
4390. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.x-p73.5
4391. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.x-p73.11
4392. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.iv-p78.1
4393. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxx-p4.1
4394. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.x-p9.1
4395. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.v-p93.1
4396. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.iv-p94.5
4397. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.viii-p13.1
4398. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.ii-p32.3
4399. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiv-p54.1
4400. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.vii-p56.1
4401. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xx-p23.2
4402. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p147.1
4403. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.v-p34.1
4404. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.iii-p22.1
4405. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.viii-p76.1
4406. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.vi-p27.1
4407. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xii-p12.2
4408. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xix-p34.1
4409. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.iii-p45.1
4410. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.ii-p185.3
4411. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xvi-p6.3
4412. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xvi-p7.2
4413. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p36.7
4414. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.x-p155.8
4415. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.xiv-p14.4
4416. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vii-p36.1
4417. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p102.5
4418. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xvii-p84.1
4419. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xii-p43.1
4420. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.vi-p49.1
4421. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p148.1
4422. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.vi-p49.5
4423. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxiii-p94.1
4424. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xvii-p69.1
4425. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiii-p17.2
4426. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiii-p17.6
4427. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xii-p36.2
4428. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxvii-p75.3
4429. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.ii-p32.5
4430. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xviii-p135.1
4431. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxvii-p75.5
4432. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxv-p31.1
4433. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.v-p20.1
4434. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vii-p33.3
4435. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.x-p57.1
4436. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p24.1
4437. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.vii-p49.1
4438. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.v-p51.1
4439. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xvii-p69.5
4440. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.ix-p45.1
4441. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xviii-p155.1
4442. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p194.1
4443. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxix-p37.2
4444. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.v-p20.3
4445. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p55.2
4446. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxvi-p14.1
4447. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.iv-p68.1
4448. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xii-p12.1
4449. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.v-p86.1
4450. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xii-p12.4
4451. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p55.4
4452. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.i-p66.3
4453. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vi-p152.1
4454. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.x-p64.2
4455. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxvi-p11.1
4456. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxvi-p11.3
4457. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p98.6
4458. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xvii-p53.1
4459. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.xi-p142.1
4460. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xii-p23.10
4461. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxiii-p94.3
4462. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.viii-p14.1
4463. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xvi-p24.1
4464. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxi-p70.1
4465. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xx-p75.1
4466. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p123.1
4467. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.iv-p55.1
4468. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.x-p58.1
4469. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxi-p171.4
4470. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxiv-p22.1
4471. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxix-p49.1
4472. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxii-p19.1
4473. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xvii-p3.1
4474. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.xi-p136.1
4475. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxix-p44.1
4476. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxix-p48.1
4477. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p91.4
4478. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxix-p44.3
4479. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.viii-p108.1
4480. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.ii-p4.1
4481. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.iv-p152.3
4482. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.iv-p152.1
4483. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.viii-p34.1
4484. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xviii-p67.2
4485. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.ii-p137.1
4486. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiv-p64.1
4487. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p36.11
4488. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p36.17
4489. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiv-p64.3
4490. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.xi-p37.1
4491. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxiv-p16.1
4492. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxiv-p17.1
4493. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vii-p21.1
4494. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.ix-p34.1
4495. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxvi-p112.1
4496. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.v-p140.1
4497. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.xviii-p16.1
4498. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p54.1
4499. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.ii-p19.1
4500. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p75.1
4501. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vii-p13.1
4502. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vii-p14.1
4503. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p96.2
4504. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.v-p68.2
4505. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vi-p142.4
4506. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vii-p16.2
4507. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.i-p44.4
4508. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xix-p13.1
4509. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p143.1
4510. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xix-p36.2
4511. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.x-p42.1
4512. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.iii-p54.1
4513. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.ix-p28.1
4514. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p55.6
4515. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p55.8
4516. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p36.9
4517. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.ix-p27.1
4518. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxi-p168.3
4519. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.xvi-p46.1
4520. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p215.2
4521. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.ix-p80.1
4522. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.iv-p98.1
4523. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxviii-p115.1
4524. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.viii-p44.3
4525. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.viii-p41.1
4526. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xvii-p106.1
4527. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xviii-p81.1
4528. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.viii-p1.1
4529. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.viii-p17.1
4530. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.iii-p20.1
4531. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.iii-p21.1
4532. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.ii-p11.1
4533. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xiv-p10.1
4534. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xiv-p10.3
4535. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.iv-p63.7
4536. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.ii-p187.5
4537. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.iv-p82.1
4538. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p75.9
4539. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xv-p47.1
4540. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xviii-p64.2
4541. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vi-p142.7
4542. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p95.2
4543. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.vi-p49.1
4544. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.v-p94.2
4545. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.vii-p54.1
4546. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxv-p32.1
4547. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xix-p81.1
4548. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vii-p39.1
4549. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xviii-p23.1
4550. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.i-p13.1
4551. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.i-p14.1
4552. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.i-p71.2
4553. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.xii-p32.1
4554. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xviii-p23.3
4555. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxvii-p75.1
4556. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.iii-p22.3
4557. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.ii-p32.7
4558. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.x-p155.11
4559. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.v-p94.4
4560. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p32.3
4561. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p26.1
4562. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p104.3
4563. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.ii-p186.1
4564. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p54.1
4565. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.vii-p45.1
4566. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxix-p60.5
4567. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.ii-p70.1
4568. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xvi-p37.3
4569. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xxiii-p11.3
4570. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.xii-p37.1
4571. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p25.1
4572. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xvi-p37.1
4573. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.i-p39.1
4574. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p213.1
4575. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxix-p60.3
4576. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xii-p16.1
4577. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xii-p16.5
4578. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xii-p16.3
4579. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxiii-p93.1
4580. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.v-p21.1
4581. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vi-p194.1
4582. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p36.1
4583. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.viii-p102.1
4584. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxii-p49.1
4585. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxii-p75.1
4586. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.iv-p36.1
4587. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xvii-p27.3
4588. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xvii-p28.1
4589. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xvii-p30.1
4590. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxx-p33.1
4591. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xvii-p63.2
4592. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p42.5
4593. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.iii-p24.3
4594. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxiii-p129.3
4595. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p42.3
4596. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p36.13
4597. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p36.15
4598. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xx-p57.1
4599. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxix-p66.1
4600. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxvi-p8.1
4601. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.viii-p86.3
4602. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.iv-p24.1
4603. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vi-p125.1
4604. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xviii-p153.1
4605. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p36.1
4606. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iii-p44.1
4607. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.iv-p40.1
4608. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xiv-p42.1
4609. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.x-p25.3
4610. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vii-p29.1
4611. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.ii-p54.5
4612. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.vi-p24.1
4613. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.vi-p24.5
4614. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.vi-p24.8
4615. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.ix-p33.1
4616. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xxiv-p20.4
4617. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.i-p46.1
4618. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xxiv-p56.1
4619. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xxiv-p20.1
4620. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.x-p10.2
4621. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xvi-p36.1
4622. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xvii-p52.1
4623. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xii-p66.1
4624. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.viii-p76.3
4625. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.viii-p76.1
4626. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxix-p56.1
4627. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.v-p56.1
4628. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxiii-p4.1
4629. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxvi-p90.1
4630. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.viii-p26.2
4631. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.vii-p19.1
4632. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p32.5
4633. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iii-p13.3
4634. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iii-p13.5
4635. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.ii-p16.1
4636. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p30.1
4637. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p231.1
4638. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p144.1
4639. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.viii-p88.1
4640. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.viii-p84.1
4641. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.viii-p35.1
4642. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxvi-p26.1
4643. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.x-p155.3
4644. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.iv-p62.13
4645. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xvii-p8.1
4646. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.ii-p30.1
4647. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.iii-p68.2
4648. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxi-p28.1
4649. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.ii-p30.3
4650. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.x-p59.1
4651. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p48.1
4652. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p48.3
4653. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xii-p3.1
4654. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xii-p3.4
4655. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiv-p49.3
4656. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiv-p49.1
4657. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xvii-p28.1
4658. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xiii-p31.2
4659. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxiv-p10.3
4660. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxiv-p10.1
4661. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.i-p27.1
4662. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xxi-p23.1
4663. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.vii-p60.6
4664. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiv-p51.1
4665. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.xiv-p14.2
4666. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p75.3
4667. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p75.5
4668. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.viii-p5.1
4669. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.viii-p10.1
4670. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxii-p28.1
4671. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xx-p72.1
4672. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.vii-p66.4
4673. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.viii-p59.18
4674. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxvii-p64.1
4675. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xix-p15.1
4676. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vii-p22.1
4677. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xix-p9.3
4678. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p101.1
4679. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p91.2
4680. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiii-p17.4
4681. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiii-p17.8
4682. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xviii-p94.1
4683. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.i-p36.1
4684. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xvii-p69.7
4685. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xvii-p69.3
4686. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p115.1
4687. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxii-p47.2
4688. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.ii-p135.1
4689. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxiii-p129.5
4690. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxii-p48.1
4691. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xv-p48.1
4692. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xix-p62.1
4693. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p98.1
4694. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.viii-p4.1
4695. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xv-p37.1
4696. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p102.1
4697. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxiii-p77.3
4698. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxiii-p77.1
4699. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p96.1
4700. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.ii-p50.1
4701. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxiii-p23.1
4702. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxiii-p23.3
4703. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.iv-p63.1
4704. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxvi-p102.1
4705. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vi-p201.1
4706. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiv-p90.3
4707. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiv-p90.1
4708. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p174.1
4709. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.iv-p81.2
4710. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.x-p4.1
4711. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vi-p12.3
4712. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiii-p25.3
4713. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.v-p26.1
4714. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xviii-p161.1
4715. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.vii-p60.1
4716. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.v-p98.1
4717. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vii-p47.1
4718. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xviii-p50.1
4719. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xviii-p110.2
4720. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.ii-p30.3
4721. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xxiv-p49.1
4722. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xii-p22.1
4723. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.vii-p60.3
4724. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p75.7
4725. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xvii-p105.1
4726. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p36.5
4727. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.x-p64.4
4728. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xx-p35.1
4729. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.vi-p49.3
4730. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xii-p49.1
4731. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xix-p12.1
4732. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.iv-p25.1
4733. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxix-p58.1
4734. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxix-p58.4
4735. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.viii-p44.6
4736. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.ix-p74.1
4737. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.vi-p27.1
4738. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.iii-p27.1
4739. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xv-p10.1
4740. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.ii-p5.1
4741. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.i-p58.3
4742. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.i-p58.1
4743. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxi-p72.1
4744. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxi-p75.1
4745. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xvii-p104.3
4746. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.x-p85.1
4747. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.iv-p74.1
4748. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.iv-p74.3
4749. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.x-p155.6
4750. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxvi-p30.1
4751. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xii-p88.1
4752. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p194.4
4753. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xx-p49.1
4754. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iii-p13.1
4755. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xii-p59.1
4756. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxiii-p72.4
4757. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxviii-p122.1
4758. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxvi-p8.4
4759. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.ii-p187.3
4760. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p104.1
4761. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxiv-p13.1
4762. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.vi-p40.1
4763. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xx-p72.5
4764. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xv-p32.3
4765. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxix-p55.1
4766. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiii-p96.1
4767. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.viii-p44.1
4768. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vii-p35.1
4769. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.vi-p25.1
4770. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xix-p73.1
4771. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p32.1
4772. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.ix-p107.1
4773. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.vii-p50.1
4774. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.ii-p30.1
4775. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiii-p25.1
4776. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiii-p25.5
4777. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p171.1
4778. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.v-p42.2
4779. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.ix-p26.1
4780. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p124.2
4781. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p29.1
4782. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxiii-p51.1
4783. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ii-p13.3
4784. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.ii-p10.8
4785. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vi-p12.1
4786. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vi-p165.2
4787. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxvi-p112.4
4788. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xiii-p13.1
4789. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.x-p73.9
4790. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-p125.3
4791. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.viii-p106.1
4792. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.iv-p50.1
4793. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vii-p48.1
4794. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.vii-p22.1
4795. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.i-p58.5
4796. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.iii-p74.2
4797. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxiii-p72.2
4798. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p217.1
4799. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.vii-p19.3
4800. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.ii-p9.1
4801. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vii-p42.1
4802. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-p39.1
4803. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiv-p11.1
4804. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.iv-p62.5
4805. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.iv-p62.3
4806. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.iv-p62.8
4807. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.ii-p15.1
4808. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.ii-p30.7
4809. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.ii-p32.1
4810. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.iv-p39.1
4811. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxvi-p55.2
4812. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xii-p4.1
4813. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.iv-p62.10
4814. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xii-p34.3
4815. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-p75.11
4816. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.v-p108.1
4817. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xvii-p27.1
4818. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.x-p23.2
4819. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#i-Page_i
4820. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#i-Page_ii
4821. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#i-Page_iii
4822. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.i-Page_i.3
4823. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.ii-Page_i.i.17
4824. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iii-Page_i.i.31
4825. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.iv-Page_i.i.40
4826. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.v-Page_i.i.58
4827. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.vi-Page_i.75
4828. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.vii-Page_i.84
4829. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vi.viii-Page_i.93
4830. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.i-Page_i.111
4831. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.ii-Page_ii.121
4832. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.iii-Page_i.133
4833. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.iv-Page_i.144
4834. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.v-Page_i.160
4835. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.vi-Page_i.180
4836. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.vii-Page_i.191
4837. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.viii-Page_i.202
4838. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.ix-Page_i.217
4839. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.x-Page_i.235
4840. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.xi-Page_i.255
4841. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#vii.xii-Page_i.275
4842. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.i-Page_i.291
4843. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.ii-Page_i.308
4844. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.iii-Page_i.336
4845. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.iv-Page_i.351
4846. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.v-Page_i.364
4847. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.vi-Page_i.377
4848. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.vii-Page_i.390
4849. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.viii-Page_i.404
4850. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.ix-Page_i.422
4851. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.x-Page_i.430
4852. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xi-Page_i.452
4853. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xii-Page_i.460
4854. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xiii-Page_i.470
4855. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xiv-Page_i.478
4856. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xv-Page_i.489
4857. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xvi-Page_i.499
4858. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xvii-Page_i.507
4859. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xviii-Page_i.524
4860. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xix-Page_i.542
4861. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xx-Page_i.552
4862. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxi-Page_i.561
4863. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxii-Page_i.570
4864. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxii-Page_i.578
4865. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxiv-Page_i.599
4866. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxiv-Page_i.606
4867. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxvi-Page_i.616
4868. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxvii-Page_i.635
4869. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxviii-Page_i.654
4870. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxix-Page_i.676
4871. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxix-Page_i.686
4872. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxx-Page_ii.3
4873. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxii-Page_ii.25
4874. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxii-Page_ii.37
4875. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxiv-Page_ii.44
4876. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxv-Page_ii.51
4877. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxvi-Page_ii.63
4878. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#viii.xxxvii-Page_ii.72
4879. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.i-Page_ii.91
4880. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.ii-Page_ii.102
4881. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.iii-Page_ii.110
4882. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.iv-Page_ii.126
4883. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.v-Page_ii.135
4884. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.vi-Page_ii.148
4885. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.vii-Page_ii.156
4886. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.viii-Page_ii.164
4887. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.ix-Page_ii.177
4888. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.x-Page_ii.188
4889. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xi-Page_ii.195
4890. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xii-Page_ii.204
4891. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xiii-Page_ii.214
4892. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xiv-Page_ii.226
4893. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xv-Page_ii.233
4894. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xvi-Page_ii.243
4895. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xvii-Page_ii.253
4896. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xviii-Page_ii.264
4897. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xix-Page_ii.284
4898. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xx-Page_ii.298
4899. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xxi-Page_ii.308
4900. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xxii-Page_ii.327
4901. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xxiii-Page_ii.338
4902. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#ix.xxiv-Page_ii.349
4903. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x-Page_ii.361
4904. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.i-Page_ii.363
4905. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.ii-Page_ii.374
4906. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.iii-Page_ii.380
4907. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.iv-Page_ii.396
4908. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.v-Page_ii.415
4909. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vi-Page_ii.431
4910. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.vii-Page_ii.453
4911. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.viii-Page_ii.468
4912. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.ix-Page_ii.479
4913. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.x-Page_ii.490
4914. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xi-Page_ii.513
4915. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xii-Page_ii.533
4916. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiii-Page_ii.546
4917. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xiv-Page_ii.565
4918. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xv-Page_ii.582
4919. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xvi-Page_ii.621
4920. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#x.xvi-Page_ii.630
4921. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi-Page_ii.655
4922. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.ii-Page_ii.659
4923. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.iii-Page_ii.665
4924. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.iv-Page_ii.667
4925. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.v-Page_ii.683
4926. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.vi-Page_ii.701
4927. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.vii-Page_ii.704
4928. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.viii-Page_ii.706
4929. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.ix-Page_ii.710
4930. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.x-Page_ii.742
4931. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.xi-Page_ii.744
4932. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.xii-Page_ii.745
4933. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.xii-Page_ii.748
4934. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.xiii-Page_ii.764
4935. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.xiv-Page_ii.767
4936. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.xv-Page_ii.770
4937. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.xvi-Page_ii.777
4938. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.xvii-Page_ii.788
4939. file:///ccel/e/edersheim/lifetimes/cache/lifetimes.html3#xi.xviii-Page_ii.791
